Cold War: Question 1 of 36
The economic policies of the Soviet Union traditionally emphasized the production of
automobiles for export
building materials for luxury housing
consumer goods
heavy industrial goods
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Five-Year Plans begun under the rule of Stalin in the Soviet Union emphasized the development of heavy industries in order to transform the traditionally agricultural nation into an industrial superpower.


Cold War: Question 2 of 36
Which is generally a characteristic of a communist economy?
investment is encouraged by the promise of large profits
the role of government in the economy is restricted by law
government agencies are involved in production planning
entrepreneurs sell shares in their companies to the government
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: A communist, or command economy, controls the means of production by having governmental agencies involved in production planning.


Cold War: Question 3 of 36
One reason the Soviet Union formed the Warsaw Pact was to
ease the transition to democracy
help institute capitalism in Eastern Europe
limit the threat of invasion from Western Europe
challenge the economic successes of the Common Market
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Warsaw Pact was formed by the Soviet Union and seven of its satellite states as a response to NATO. The Warsaw Pact was a defensive military alliance.


Cold War: Question 4 of 36
Which statement best describes most Eastern European countries immediately after World War II? They
adopted democratic reforms in their political systems
became satellite states of the Soviet Union
became dependent on aid provided by the Marshall Plan
emerged as world economic powers
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: After World War II, Stalin forced pro-communists governments in Czechoslovakia, Poland, and other Eastern European nations. These nations became known as Soviet satellite states. The Soviets retained control through both economic and militaristic means.


Cold War: Question 5 of 36
Communist governments were established in most nations of Eastern Europe shortly after World War II because
the region had a long tradition of strong communist parties
communist governments were able to significantly increase agricultural productivity
the Soviet Union used military and diplomatic pressures to install their governments
members of the Communist party won free elections in these nations
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: After World War II, Stalin forced pro-communists governments in Czechoslovakia, Poland, and other Eastern European nations. These nations became known as Soviet satellite states. The Soviets retained control through both economic and militaristic means.


Cold War: Question 6 of 36
During the Cold War Era (1945-1990), the United States and the Soviet Union were reluctant to become involved in direct military conflict mainly because of
the peacekeeping role of the United Nations
pressure from nonaligned nations
the potential for global nuclear destruction
increased tensions in the Middle East
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Bother superpowers had nuclear capabilities, and it was believed that a direct confrontation between them could lead to a nuclear war.


Cold War: Question 7 of 36
After World War II, the Soviet Union established satellites in Eastern Europe to
support the remaining Fascist governments in Eastern Europe
preserve capitalism in Eastern Europe
establish democratic governments in Eastern European nations
expand its power and control over Eastern Europe
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: After World War II, Stalin forced pro-communists governments in Czechoslovakia, Poland, and other Eastern European nations. These nations became known as Soviet satellite states. The Soviet's retained control through both economic and militaristic means.


Cold War: Question 8 of 36
In the Soviet Union, a negative aspect of the Cold War Era was the
attempt to preserve democratic ideals
development of peaceful uses for modern technology
development of effective means of international cooperation
high cost of maintaining the arms race
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Soviet Union devoted a large portion of its economy to maintaining a balance of power with the United States. This was often done at the expense of modernizing civilian areas of life and providing for the basic needs of their citizens.


Cold War: Question 10 of 36
Prior to the 1980’s, the emphasis of the Five-Year Plans in the Soviet Union was on heavy industry. One result was the
scarcity of consumer goods
abundance of manufactured goods
rejection of agricultural planning
decline in military spending
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The Five Year Plans devoted most available resources to building heavy industry. This was done at the expense of consumer goods, which created shortages in all areas of civilian life.


Cold War: Question 11 of 36
The Soviet Union’s reaction to the 1968 revolt in Czechoslovakia was to
permit limited political and economic reforms in Czechoslovakia
withdraw Soviet troops from Eastern Europe
send Soviet troops to occupy Czechoslovakia
bring the matter to the attention of the United Nations
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Soviet Union sent troops into Czechoslovakia in 1968 to overthrow the current government and replace it with a pro-communist regime. This proved to the world that the Soviets were willing to use military force to keep their control over Eastern Europe.


Cold War: Question 12 of 36
Which was a major reason for the success of Soviet domination in Eastern Europe after World War II?
Eastern Europeans accepted the doctrine of Pan-Slavism
the democracies of Western Europe needed greater security
the Soviet Union had military forces in Eastern Europe as a result of World War II
Western Europeans feared that Nazism would be rekindled in Eastern Europe
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: After World War II, Stalin forced pro-communists governments in Czechoslovakia, Poland, and other Eastern European nations. These nations became known as Soviet satellite states. The Soviet's retained control through both economic and militaristic means.


Cold War: Question 13 of 36
The events that took place in Hungary in the 1950’s and in Czechoslovakia in the 1960’s demonstrated the Soviet Union’s
support of nationalism among satellite nations
influence on the economies of developing nations
determination to maintain political control over Eastern Europe at that time
attempts to promote its artistic and literary achievements in Western Europe
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Soviet Union used its military power to maintain control over its satellite states. This became known as the Brezhnev Doctrine, which maintained the Soviet Union's right to intervene in the domestic affairs of any Warsaw Pact nation.


Cold War: Question 14 of 36
The expansion of communism into Eastern Europe was a direct result of
the Crimean war
the Napoleonic Wars
World War I
World War II
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: After World War II, Stalin forced pro-communists governments in Czechoslovakia, Poland, and other Eastern European nations. These nations became known as Soviet satellite states. The Soviet's retained control through both economic and militaristic means.


Cold War: Question 15 of 36
United States involvement in the Vietnam War and the Soviet Union’s involvement in Afghanistan were motivated mainly by a desire to
exploit the mineral resources of the regions
support governments that would remain strong allies
stop the expansion of Japan into the Middle East
establish independent nation-states in the regions
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The Soviet Union supported various communist governments around the world, while the United States worked to stop the spread of communism. In cases like Afghanistan and Vietnam, this type of support led to warfare.



Cold War: Question 17 of 36
The invasion of Hungary in 1956 by the Soviet Union and the building of the Berlin Wall in 1961 are examples of
United Nations Security Council resolutions
Truman Doctrine failures
Marshall Plan effects
Cold War Era conflicts
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The Truman Doctrine was a United States policy that sent economic and military aid to any country trying to resist Soviet expansion. This policy failed to stop the Soviet control of Hungary or East Germany.


Cold War: Question 18 of 36
During the Cold War Era, many Asian and African nations followed a policy of nonalignment because they
had the same goals and needs as the Soviet Union
needed the natural resources of Western European nations
wished to receive aid from the Soviet Union and the United States
were afraid of losing their vote in the United Nations
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: These nations hoped to receive aid from both the Soviet Union and the United States while remaining neutral. The main goal of most of these nations was economic progress while remaining free from cold war entanglements.


Cold War: Question 20 of 36
Which is a major reason Cuban and Nicaraguan revolutionary movements were attracted to communism?
communist groups promised economic reform and better living standards
business owners and the military were supported by communist groups
the goal of communism was to encourage religion
communist leaders promised to reduce Spanish colonialism in the Western Hemisphere
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Both countries had suffered under corrupt governments that did very little to help the majority of citizens who were poor. Socialist ideas of government aid appealed to this group of people.


Cold War: Question 21 of 36
The main reason the United Nations sent troops to Korea in 1950 was to
ensure that food reached areas of the Korean Peninsula affected by famine
prevent North Korea from conquering the people of South Korea
force the inspection of nuclear weapons plants in North Korea
restore peace between warring factions of Buddhism and Shinto
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: North Korean forces sought to unify the country under a communist regime. The United Nations, strongly supported by the United States, sent troops to prevent this from occurring.


Cold War: Question 22 of 36
The conflict between Israel and the Arab nations since 1948 was often considered part of the Cold War primarily because
the policy of detente evolved from this conflict
communist governments were established in many Arab nations
the leadership of Joseph Stalin strongly influenced the policies of Saddam Hussein
the United States supported Israel and the Soviet Union supported several Arab nations
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The conflict in the Middle East has often been a surrogate for cold war tensions. The United States supported Israel, while the Soviets supported Egypt under Gamal Nasser, and other nations opposed to the United States and Israel.




Cold War: Question 24 of 36
Which statement would be consistent with the views of Fidel Castro?
The spread of communism is the greatest danger facing Latin America
An American military presence is the key to the defense of Latin America
Progress and justice in Latin America can only be achieved through revolutionary socialism
Introducing a free-market system will improve the economies of Latin American nations
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Fidel Castro led the revolution that setup a communist government in Cuba with him at its head. He has been a strong advocate of revolutionary socialism in other Latin American nations.


Cold War: Question 25 of 36
From the perspective of the North Vietnamese, the war in Vietnam in the 1960’s was a battle between
fascism and liberalism
nationalism and imperialism
republicanism and totalitarianism
theocracy and monarchy
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The North Vietnamese viewed the United States as an imperialist nation seeking to subjugate them. The nationalistic feelings of the North Vietnamese led them to rebel against United States intervention in their country.


Cold War: Question 26 of 36
Which headline concerning the Soviet Union refers to a Cold War event?
“Yeltsin Assumes Power”
“Trotsky Forms Red Army
“Germany Invades USSR”
“Warsaw Pact Formed”
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Warsaw Pact was formed by the Soviet Union and seven of its satellite states as a response to NATO. The Warsaw Pact was a defensive military alliance.


Cold War: Question 27 of 36
A major development in relations between the Soviet Union and the United States occurred in the late 1980’s when the two nations agreed to
purchase all their oil from Mexico
withdraw from the United Nations
eliminate a group of nuclear missiles
ban arms sales to developing nations
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The United States and Soviet Union worked together throughout the 1970s and 1980s to reduce the number of nuclear weapons each possessed.


Cold War: Question 28 of 36
During the 1980’s, the Soviet Union experimented with modifications of its command economy by
eliminating central planning
allowing private ownership of major industries
introducing some market economy strategies
legalizing independent trade unions
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Soviet Union sought to boost its weak economy by using market economy strategies.


Cold War: Question 29 of 36
In the 30 years after World War II, which area was most influenced by the Soviet Union?
Southeast Asia
North Africa
Eastern Europe
Central America
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: After World War II, Stalin forced pro-communists governments in Czechoslovakia, Poland, and other Eastern European nations. These nations became known as Soviet satellite states. The Soviet’s retained control through both economic and militaristic means.


Cold War: Question 30 of 36
Which statement best describes the political situation in Eastern Europe during the 1980’s?
nationalism has often been a strong force for change
communist governments have gained power through democratic elections
ethnic rivalries have been eliminated throughout the region
United States influence has been used to keep communist governments in power
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: During the 1980s, nationalistic feelings began to dominate the political landscape in Eastern Europe, eventually leading to independence for many of these nations.


Cold War: Question 31 of 36
The withdrawal of France from Indochina, the involvement of the Soviet Union in Cuba, and the United States support of the Contras in Nicaragua illustrate that nations
consistently discard traditional foreign policy goals after changes in administration
tend to base foreign policy decisions on what they believe to be their self-interests
no longer use warfare as a means to resolve international conflict
tend to refer foreign policy conflicts to the United Nations
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: During the Cold War, the Soviet Union and the United States sought new spheres of influence throughout the world.


Cold War: Question 32 of 36
Which is a valid statement about the Soviet Union from the time of the Bolshevik Revolution through 1991?
Education has been limited to the communist party elite
Demand for consumer goods has exceeded production
Military expenditures have been low
Industrialization has not occurred
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: A communist, or command economy, controls the means of production by having governmental agencies involved in production planning. The Soviet Union devoted most available resources to building heavy industry. This was done at the expense of consumer goods, which created shortages in all areas of civilian life.


Cold War: Question 33 of 36
In the Soviet Union, Vladimir Lenin’s New Economic Policy (NEP) and Mikhail Gorbachev’s policy of Perestroika both sought to
increase spending of nuclear weapons
strengthen central planning
increase production through individual enterprise
reduce the influence of middle-class farmers
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Traditionally, a communist, or command economy, controls the means of production by having governmental agencies involved in production planning. Both Lenin and Gorbachev sought to increase production in vital areas by introducing individual enterprise.


Cold War: Question 34 of 36
During the 1980’s in the Soviet Union, a major element of the economic policy of Perestroika was
increased collectivization of farms
more reliance on local and regional decision making
the expanded use of national Five-Year plans
an emphasis on the redistribution of wealth
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Traditionally, a communist, or command economy, controls the means of production by having government agencies involved in production planning. Gorbachev’s policy of perestroika sought to increase production in vital areas by introducing individual free enterprise.




Cold War: Question 36 of 36
In Eastern Europe during the 1950’s and 1960’s, the Soviet Union responded to challenges to its control by
allowing free elections, when necessary
imposing prompt and severe repression
obtaining United Nations assistance
granting independence to its satellite nations
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The Soviet Union used its military power to maintain control over its satellite states. This became known as the Brezhnev Doctrine, which maintained the Soviet Union’s right to intervene in the domestic affairs of any Warsaw Pact nation.




Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 1 of 18
In the People’s Republic of China, which factor best reflects Marxism?
communal work teams on farms
ownership of small farms by individuals
small family-owned businesses in villages
foreign influence on the economy
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Karl Marx wrote of sharing work and output with all members of society, which is best shown in this question by the example of “communal work teams on farms.”


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 2 of 18
The Great Leap Forward in China and the five-year plans in the Soviet Union were attempts to increase
private capital investment
religious tolerance
individual ownership of land
industrial productivity
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Great Leap Forward in China and the Five Year Plans in the Soviet Union were both aimed at increasing industrial output.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 3 of 18
In China and the former Soviet Union, the communist governments discouraged organized religion because religions
compete for the loyalties of the people
support the principles of laissez-faire
favor anarchy over organized government
stress economic rather than political values
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: According to the communist governments of China and the Soviet Union, the only loyalty the people should have is to the Party.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 4 of 18
A major goal of the Cultural Revolution in China during the 1960’s was to
restore China to the glory of the Han Dynasty
reemphasize Confucian traditional values
weaken communist ideas
eliminate opposition to Mao Zedong
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Cultural Revolution was started to renew the people’s faith in the revolution. Mao Zedong used this policy as a tool for eliminating political opposition to his rule and the Communist Party.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 5 of 18
After World War II, the Chinese Communists were successful in their revolution mainly because the
United States refused to support the Nationalists
communists had the support of the peasants
communists had more technologically advanced weapons
nationalist had been defeated by Japan
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The Chinese Communists were successful due to the overwhelming support of both peasants and women. These groups were promised better living conditions and equality in exchange for their support.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 6 of 18
An immediate result of the Cultural Revolution in China was that it
helped to establish democracy in urban centers in China
led to economic cooperation with Japan and South Korea
disrupted China’s economic and educational systems
strengthened political ties with the United States
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Cultural Revolution, aimed at renewing the people’s loyalty to communism, was a dismal failure that led to widespread violence and the disruption of the Chinese economy.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 7 of 18
The main reason the Chinese Communists gained control of mainland China in 1949 was that
they were supported by many warlords and upper class Chinese
the United States had supported the Chinese Communist Party during World War II
the dynamic leadership of Mao Zedong had the support of the peasant class
they had superior financial resources and were supported by Japan
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Chinese Communists were successful due to the overwhelming support of both peasants and women. These groups were promised better living conditions and equality in exchange for their support.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 8 of 18
In China, the Great Leap Forward was an attempt to
promote democratic reform
end the private ownership of land
strengthen economic ties with Europe
increase agricultural and industrial production
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Great Leap Forward was an economic program started by Mao Zedong in 1958. The goal was to increase agricultural and industrial products by setting up communes for people to live and work. This policy was a complete failure. Production in industry and agricultural decreased, which led to widespread famine.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 9 of 18
Deng Xioaping’s economic reforms in China differ from the previous economic policies of Mao Zedong in that Deng’s reforms
discourage private ownership of businesses
promote further collectivization
include elements of capitalism
decrease trade with the United States
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Deng Xiaoping ended the policy of communes and set up limited privatization in both agriculture and industry. The result was increased production in both areas. This was part of his Four Modernizations program, which included agriculture, industry, science and technology, and defense.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 10 of 18
The Confucian view of government and the Chinese Communist view of government were similar in that both stressed
loyalty to the government
the need for filial piety
a civil service system
equality of men and women
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Both views of government prize loyalty to the state above all else.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 11 of 18
A major reason for the success of the Communist revolution in China was that the Communists
stressed Buddhism in their military training
included important businessmen in their ranks
promised land and power to the peasant class
fought successfully against the United States during World War II
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Chinese Communists were successful due to the overwhelming support of both peasants and women. These groups were promised better living conditions and equality in exchange for their support.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 12 of 18
In China, the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution promoted by Mao Zedong were similar in that both plans
ended dynastic rule
disrupted industrial development
encouraged capitalism
guaranteed human rights
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Both the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution failed in their original goals and resulted in a disruption of the Chinese economy.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 13 of 18
During the 1980’s, the Chinese government adopted policies designed to
increase industrial productivity
reestablish Confucian traditions and values
gain colonies throughout East Asia
maintain its isolation from world events
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Deng Xiaoping’s Four Modernizations program was aimed at increasing production in key areas, such as agriculture, industry, science and technology, and defense.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 14 of 18
Which statement about the economy of China in the 1980’s is most accurate?
China surpassed the Soviet Union in steel production
China’s economy slowed down because of a lack of natural resources
China increased its industrial capacity and foreign trade
China’s economy suffered from overproduction of consumer goods
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Deng Xiaoping’s Four Modernizations program was aimed at increasing production in key areas, such as agriculture, industry, science and technology, and defense.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 15 of 18
Sun Yat-sen’s “Three Principles of the People” (1911) and the demonstrations in Tiananmen Square (1989) were similar in that they both demanded that the Chinese government
achieve global interdependence
restore dynastic rule
introduce democratic reforms
end foreign influences in China
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Both are examples of the Chinese people's attempt at gaining more participation in their government, and also securing more personal liberty.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 16 of 18
The goal of Mao Zedong’s policy known as the Great Leap Forward was to
develop foreign export industries in China’s coastal urban centers
eliminate state-owned industries in rural China
modernize China’s economic system by dividing China into communes
introduce capitalism to the Chinese economy
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Great Leap Forward was an economic program started by Mao Zedong in 1958. The goal was to increase agricultural and industrial products by setting up communes for people to live and work. This policy was a complete failure. Production in industry and agricultural decreased, which led to widespread famine.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 17 of 18
Which statement about reforms in China during the 1980’s and 1990’s is most accurate?
Political reforms resulted in the overthrow of communism.
Economic reforms were more successful than political reforms.
Political reforms increased individual rights.
Economic reforms forced China to return to a policy of isolationism.
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: While the Four Modernizations program was a success economically, very little progress was made in the way of political reform. China remains an oppressive government to its people.


Chinese Communist Revolution: Question 18 of 18
“A wind has been blowing from the West; now it will begin to blow from the East.” — Mao Zedong, 1949 Which idea was Mao Zedong expressing in this quotation?

The monsoons will soon shift and bring destruction to the mainland of Asia.
Chinese culture will no longer influence the people of Asia.
European power will decline as a new center of power emerges in Asia.
The Asian people have much to learn from the Western Europeans.
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Mao Zedong believed that under his communist government, China would emerge as a world economic and political power.




Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 1 of 50
“When I go to the office, I put on my shirt and I take off my Caste; when I come home, I take off my shirt and I put on my Caste.”  What is the main idea of this quotation?
the Caste system continues to influence Indian society
the Caste system has been reflected by most Indians
successful urban workers in India belong the same Caste
the Indian government officially supports the Caste system
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Shortly after India achieved independence, the Caste system was officially outlawed. While one cannot be discriminated against because of their Caste, it is still an influential social institution.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 2 of 50
Which factor most limited the development of African nationalism?
European support of an educational system based on local traditions and language
the prior experience of Africans with economic self-sufficiency
political boundaries imposed by Europeans that had little relationship to African tribal boundaries
the European practice of making decisions based on local customs
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Most of the current boundaries in Africa are a result of colonialism. Therefore, many nations are composed of many different tribal and ethnic groups. These groups often feel more loyalty toward their tribal or ethnic group than they do to their nation.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 3 of 50
One way in which Kwame Nkurmah, Jomo Kenyatta, and Kenneth Kaunda are similar is that they all
supported the United Nations military action in the Persian Gulf War
played a major role in independence movements in Africa
rejected financial aid from the World Bank
opposed the Pan-African movement
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: All three leaders were influential in the independence movements of Africa.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 4 of 50
Which statement best describes the political situation in Africa after World War II?
increased nationalism led to independence for many African nations
France and West Germany sought to establish colonies in Africa
European nations increased their control over their African colonies
the United Nations opposed the idea of self-determination for African nations
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Many Africans returning from the war resented being treated as second class citizens in their own nations. Nationalism developed and independence movements gained strength as many European countries were unable or unwilling to fight to hold their colonies.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 6 of 50
After World War II, which action was taken by many African territories?
demanding independence from their colonial rulers
refusing to join international organizations
rejecting most of the technology offered by western nations
creating a strong, united Africa
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Many Africans returning from the war resented being treated as second class citizens in their own nations. Nationalism developed and independence movements gained strength as many European countries were unable or unwilling to fight to hold their colonies.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 7 of 50
Mohandas Gandhi is best known for his
use of passive resistance to achieve Indian independence
desire to establish and Islamic nations
opposition to Hindus holding political office
encouragement of violence to end British rule
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Mohandas Gandhi was an independence leader who used non-violent demonstrations and passive resistance to help end British control of India.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 8 of 50
The primary goal of the Indian National Congress (1855-1947) was to
reform the Hindu religion
partition India between Muslims and Hindus
create a socialist economy
gain independence from Great Britain
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Indian National Congress was a nationalistic organization created with the goal of freeing India from British control.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 9 of 50
The rise of independent states in Asia and Africa after World War II demonstrates the
failure of nationalist movements
influence of socialism
success of United Nations peacekeeping forces
decline of European colonial empires
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: European countries were either unwilling or unable to hold onto their colonies after the end of World War II.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 10 of 50
Which action best illustrates Mohandas Gandhi’s concept of civil disobedience?
a British army outpost was bombed as a protest against the British presence in Northern Ireland
citizens in the United States went to jail for violation segregation laws
French citizens wrote letters to their government to oppose arms sale to Iraq
supporters of Ferdinand Marcos attempted a coup d’etat against the Philippine government
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Civil Disobedience is the breaking of laws believed to be unjust by a particular group or organization. In the case of segregation, African Americans were willing to go to jail to protest what they saw as an unjust law.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 11 of 50
Which has been a characteristic of many Southeast Asian countries since World War II?
internal struggles for power that lead to political instability
isolation from the influence of the superpowers
democratic governments based on the principles of the French Revolution
fundamentalist Islamic governments supported by Iran
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Many nations formed after World War II struggled for stability as inexperienced leadership fought for control of government.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 12 of 50
Which event was used by Mohandas Gandhi to bring world attention to the injustices of British colonialism?
salt march
partition of India
Sepoy Mutiny
formation of the Indian parliament
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Gandhi's Salt March was in protest of Britain's monopoly of the salt market in India. Gandhi was jailed, along with hundreds of others, but managed to bring worldwide attention on the problem of India's independence movement.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 13 of 50
Since the 1950’s, India has experienced conflict with both Pakistan and China over
United Nations peacekeeping efforts in the region
India’s increasing trade with Korea
borders and related territorial issues
the interpretation of common religious works
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: British officials drew borders that created a Hindu India and a Muslim Pakistan in 1947. Since this time, there has been conflict between the two nations. India has also experienced problems with China over their shared border.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 14 of 50
Which statement best reflects a belief of Mohandas Gandhi?
Muslims and Hindus must be separated if true peace is to come to India
India must adopt the British factory system
The caste system must remain an important cornerstone of Hindu society
India must achieve independence, but not at the expense of further dividing the Indian people
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Gandhi believed independence should not come at the price of causing further conflict in India, such as what already existed between the Hindu and Muslim populations.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 15 of 50
Since India’s independence in 1947, the government has had the greatest success in
increasing overall food production
reducing the population
eliminating religious conflict
controlling industrial pollution
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: After independence, India switch from the colonial policy of cash crop production, to food production in response to its growing population.

More Information

Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 17 of 50
One reason India gained its independence from Great Britain in 1947 was that
Great Britain was defeated in World War II
the Treaty of Versailles required Great Britain to give up its colonies
Great Britain did not have the resources to maintain an empire after World War II
India had supported the Axis Powers during World War II
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Many European countries were either unwilling or unable to hold onto their colonies after the end of World War II.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 18 of 50
One important similarity between Indira Gandhi of India and Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan is that both
are Hindu leaders of Islamic nations
became important national leaders in nations in which women have not traditionally had equal opportunities
came into power as a result of the breakup of the Soviet Union
became leaders of the Asian bloc of nations at the United Nations
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Both became the leaders in societies where women traditionally do not take part in political life.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 19 of 50
One similarity between the Sepoys in India, the Boxers in China, and the Mau Mau in Kenya is that these groups
tried to drive Europeans out of their countries
depended on Western support for their success
adopted Marxist economic and political principles
sought independence through nonviolence
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: All three are example of violent rebellion against a colonial power. All three were ultimately a failure.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 20 of 50
The “homespun movement” and the Salt March promoted by Mohandas Gandhi in India are examples of his policy of
industrialization
isolationism
nonalignment
nonviolent protest
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Gandhi's Salt March and homespun movement were both forms of non-violent protest aimed at drawing attention to inequities in society under British rule.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 21 of 50
Which statement best explains why India was partitioned in 1947?
the British feared a united India
one region wanted to remain under British control
religious differences led to political division
communist supporters wanted a separate state
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: British officials drew borders that created a Hindu India and a Muslim Pakistan in 1947 due to religious tensions resulting in violence between the two groups.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 22 of 50
During India’s independence movement, Mohandas Gandhi’s boycott of British-made products was effective because the British considered India a major
shipping center
industrial center
market for manufactured goods
source of mineral resources
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Gandhi's homespun movement was aimed at disrupting Britain's trade with India. India imported a number of manufactured products from Great Britain, especially finished clothing.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 23 of 50
The stability of many African nations continues to be threatened by the
spread of Animism among the people
ethnic and tribal loyalties of the people
use of command economies
establishment of labor unions
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Ethnic and tribal loyalties have been the cause of political instability and violence in many African nations since independence.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 24 of 50
The war between India and Pakistan in Kashmir in 1965, the sending of Indian troops to Sir Lanka in 1987, and the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi in 1991 all demonstrate that in South Asia
a. the Shino religion is a significant force
a. United Nations peacekeeping forces are ineffective
b. regional and ethnic rivalries remain strong
c. nations are vulnerable to a communist takeover
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Numerous conflicts in South Asia have been caused by the different ethnic and religious groups inhabiting this region.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 25 of 50
In India today, the continued discrimination based on caste illustrates
a. a commitment to a capitalist economic system
b. the gap between law and tradition
c. the influence of the Cold War on India
c. the declining role of religion in modern society
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Shortly after India achieved independence, the Caste system was officially outlawed. While one cannot be discriminated against because of their Caste, it is still an influential social institution.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 26 of 50
India has developed a mixed economy that
a. guarantees government control over the economy
b. provides open competition without government interference
c. blends free enterprise with socialism
d. relies on the traditional barter system
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: India's political and economic system is similar to that of their former colonial overlord, Great Britain.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 27 of 50
During the 1980’s, national unity in India was hindered by
a. a foreign policy of nonalignment
b. continued fear of attack from the Soviet Union
c. political interference from China
c. conflicts between Sikhs, Hindus, and Muslims
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Since independence, India has often faced problems due to the religious differences of its population.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 28 of 50
With which nation are Pol Pot, the Khmer Rouge, and genocide associated?
Korea
Japan
Myanmar (Burma)
Cambodia (Kampuchea)
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Pol Pot was the leader of the Khmer Rouge, who followed a policy of genocide in the country of Cambodia (Kampuchea).



Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 30 of 50
In some African nations today, ethnic rivalries erupt when
political differences are motivated by ancient resentments
trading companies hire nonunion workers
scarce funds halt the exploration for mineral resources
groups share a common heritage
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Ethnic and tribal loyalties have been the cause of political instability and violence in many African nations since independence.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 31 of 50
Which statement is most accurate about many African societies today?
modern medicines have been ineffective in decreasing infant mortality throughout Africa
new attitudes and values often clash with traditional tribal practices
agriculture is no longer the most important economic activity in Africa
European influence no longer exists in the former colonial territories
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: As Africa modernizes, clashes occur between traditional tribal practices and more modern attitudes and values.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 32 of 50
Which situation would best encourage economic development in most African nations today?
a. increasing the population growth rate
b. attracting investment capital
c. reducing the number of skilled workers
d. depleting their natural resources
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Africa has vast natural resources, but little industry. Capital investment is needed to modernize and industrialize many African nations.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 33 of 50
The caste system is still practiced in India today primarily because it is
encouraged by village customs and traditions
enforced by the military
supported by Christian and Muslim teachings
mandated by law
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Shortly after India achieved independence, the Caste system was officially outlawed. While one cannot be discriminated against because of their Caste, it is still an influential social institution.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 34 of 50
In 1991, Pakistan amended its constitution and made the Koran the basis of all its laws. Which group was responsible for this action?
Kashmir separatists
Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO)
Buddhist monks
Islamic fundamentalists
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Koran is the holy book of Islam. Pakistan has a majority Muslim population. Many Islamic nations base their system of law and government on the Koran.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 35 of 50
In India, the people have resisted changing their attitudes toward the caste system because
national Muslim leaders have supported the caste system
the government is unwilling to end the caste system
continued religious conflict prevents changes in the caste system
the Hindu beliefs of karma and dharma reinforce the caste system
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Shortly after India achieved independence, the Caste system was officially outlawed. While one cannot be discriminated against because of their Caste, it is still an influential social institution.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 37 of 50
The actions of Jomo Kenyatta, Kwame Nkrumah, Leopold Senghor, and Julius Nyerere were most closely associated with
a rise in nationalism in several African countries
the end of apartheid in South Africa
a resurgence of colonialism in east Africa
the revival of Islam in northern Africa
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: All were nationalistic leaders of various African nations during the independence movements.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 38 of 50
The wars that took place in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Nigeria in the 1960’s and in Rwanda and Somalia in the early 1990’s are similar in that these wars were caused in part by disputes
over water sources
over oil and mineral rights
between ethnic groups
between communist and noncommunist forces
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Ethnic and tribal loyalties have been the cause of political instability and violence in many African nations since independence.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 40 of 50
After World War II, the conflict between Hindus and Muslims in India resulted in the
near genocide of the Hindu population
creation of the Muslim state of Pakistan
forced removal of most Hindus from northern and western India
decision of Mohandas Gandhi to seek election as Prime Minister of India
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: British officials drew borders that created a Hindu India and a Muslim Pakistan in 1947. Since this time, there has been conflict between the two nations.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 41 of 50
Which statement is valid about the history of Southeast Asia?
Industrialization has strengthened the traditional beliefs and lifestyles of the people.
The area has experienced little European contact.
Superpower influence has brought peace and prosperity to the region.
Religious beliefs have both unified and divided the people of the region.
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: South Asia is inhabited by very diverse ethnic and religious groups. At various times this diversity has caused wars, while at other times, these groups have unified nations.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 42 of 50
Since Nigeria’s independence in 1960, its government has frequently shifted between democracy and military dictatorship. This situation suggests that
some Nigerians support British colonialism
international problems are more easily solved by military governments
democracy is often difficult to establish in nations where little democratic tradition exists
economic prosperity is frequently achieved by military governments
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Ethnic and tribal loyalties have been the cause of political instability and violence in many African nations since independence.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 43 of 50
The desire for self-determination in African nations became a powerful force for change immediately after
World War II
the Boer War
revolutions in Russia and France
the end of the Cold War
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Many Africans returning from the war resented being treated as second class citizens in their own nations. Nationalism developed and independence movements gained strength as many European countries were unable or unwilling to fight to hold their colonies.

More Information



Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 45 of 50
In India today, a major reason the caste system remains strongest in rural areas is that
economic change occurs rapidly in villages
village laws have resulted in immediate social change
tradition remains a strong influence in small villages
Islam is the dominant religion
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Shortly after India achieved independence, the Caste system was officially outlawed. While one cannot be discriminated against because of their Caste, it is still an influential social institution.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 46 of 50
During the Cold War period, India’s foreign policy was committed to
supporting communism in Asia
rejecting democracy in Pakistan
nonalignment with the world powers
isolationism in international commerce
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: India followed the policy of nonalignment during the Cold War. Nonalignment was when a country remained neutral during the ongoing conflict between the Soviet Union and the United States.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 47 of 50
Since the end of World War II, military rearmament in Japan has been limited by
specific restrictions in Japan’s constitution
Japan’s refusal to sign a nuclear nonproliferation treaty
the United Nations refusal to sell weapons to the Japanese
a scarcity of technology and resources in Japan
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: One of the provisions of the peace treaty ending World War II with Japan, was that they were not allowed to rebuild a military force beyond certain limits.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 48 of 50
A sense of national unity has been difficult to maintain in India because of
its reliance on foreign aid
the emergence of a mixed economic system
the continuing influence of militarism
the desire of religious groups for greater autonomy
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: India is inhabited by people of diverse religious and ethnic groups. This continues to cause problems in India, and make national unity nearly impossible.

More Information


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 49 of 50
Which statement about the problems of Indian independence is a fact rather than an opinion? 
Stronger government leadership would have prevented bloodshed.
Control of India by Great Britain brought more benefits than difficulties.
Muslim leaders wanted their own separate Muslim state.
India would have been more prosperous if it had remained a colony.
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Muslim leaders wanting their own separate state is the only answer based on fact.



Conflict in the Middle East: Question 1 of 20
The main course of the Arab-Israeli conflicts from 1948 to 1973 was the clash between
Islamic Fundamentalism and Orthodox Judaism
Arab socialism and Israeli capitalism
Arab nationalism and Jewish nationalism
Israeli technology and Saudi Arabian economic goals
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Arab-Israeli conflict stems from the division of Palestine by the United Nations in 1947. Separate Jewish and Arab states were created. The Jews accepted this plan, while the Arabs did not. Shortly after, the Jews created the state of Israel, which caused all of the neighboring Arab nations to attack. There has been nearly constant warfare in this region since the creation of Israel.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 2 of 20
In Iran, the Revolution of 1979 and the rise of Islamic fundamentalism resulted in
an increase in woman’s rights
the westernization and modernization of the nation
a return to many traditional customs
the introduction of a democratic form of government
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The revolution of 1979 ended the westernization and modernization of Iran, and set up a traditional government and society based upon the Koran.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 3 of 20
Who were David Ben-Gurion, Golda Meir, and Menachem Begin?
leaders of the modern state of Israel
scientist who developed better methods of discovering oil
clergy who supported Islamic Fundamentalism
Egyptian presidents who encouraged peace with Israel
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: All three people were Prime Minister of Israel at one time.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 4 of 20
During the late 1980’s and early 1990’s the greatest threat to the stability of the nations of Egypt, Algeria, and Morocco was the
rising standard of living of their citizens
economic reforms taking place in Eastern Europe
rise of Islamic Fundamentalism
lack of financial aid from the United States
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Islamic fundamentalism is a movement to reject westernization and return to a more tradition society based upon the Koran.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 5 of 20
Israel is a country that has
an abundance of oil
a democratically elected government
Islam as its official religion
friendly ties to Jordan
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Israel’s government is a Parliamentary Democracy.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 6 of 20
In 1979, the signing of the Camp David Accords by Egypt and Israel indicated that
nationalism was no longer a force in middle Eastern politics
the differences between Shi’ite and Sunni Moslems had been settled
former enemies were able to negotiate
the Soviet Union dominated Middle Eastern affairs
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Camp David Accords was the first peace treaty ever signed by Israel and an Arab nation. It ended the state of war between Israel and Egypt.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 7 of 20
During the 1980’s, the economic development of Iran and Iraq was disrupted because of
increased emphasis on agricultural production for export
the war fought between these nations
communist revolutionary movements in these nations
severe drought and famine in the area
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The Iran-Iraq War occurred between 1980 and 1988. This war had a disruptive effect on the economies of both nations, and cost each hundreds of thousands of lives.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 8 of 20
A major factor that continues to contribute to terrorist activities in the Middle East is
a decrease in crude oil prices on the world market
the Palestinian effort to establish a homeland
the presence of United Nations forces in Syria
the worldwide rejection of violence as a means to end conflict
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Since the creation of Israel in 1948, the Palestinians have been denied a homeland of their own. This has caused violence between the Israelis and the numerous terrorist organizations that support the Palestinian cause.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 9 of 20
The 1979 Islamic Revolution in Iran was a reaction to the failure of Shah Reza Pahlavi to
modernize the nation’s economy
meet the social and political needs of the people
establish political ties with western nations
supply the military with advanced weapons technology
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Shah Reza Pahlavi westernized and modernized Iran. However, he ruled as a dictator, often violating his people’s civil rights in an effort to stay in power. This ultimately led to the revolution that removed him from power.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 10 of 20
During the 1980’s the governments of Libya and Iran were similar in that both were linked to
efforts to separate religion and politics
advocates of judicial reform
incidents of international terrorism
promotion of democratic principles in third world nations
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Both Libya and Iran have supported various terrorist activities at one time or another.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 11 of 20
The actions of most Islamic fundamentalists show that they support
a Zionist movement
equal rights for women
traditional Muslim teachings
a renewed attempt at modernization
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Islamic fundamentalism is a movement to reject westernization and return to a more tradition society based upon the Koran.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 12 of 20
In most of the nations of the Middle East, a major long-term economic concern will be the need for
unskilled labor
imported oil
diversified industry
herds of camels
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Many Middle Eastern nations need to develop diverse industrial projects to remain competitive in the world market.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 13 of 20
Which type of government did Ayatollah Khomeini establish as a result of the Iranian Revolution in 1979?
constitutional monarchy
fundamentalist Islamic state
democratic republic
radical Marxist regime
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The revolution of 1979 ended the westernization and modernization of Iran, and set up a traditional government and society based upon the Koran.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 14 of 20
One similarity in the leadership of Kemal Ataturk, Gamal Nasser, and Shah Reza Pahlavi is that all these leaders
sought to modernize their nations
came to power as a result of democratic elections
encouraged their people to convert to Hinduism
led invasions into Israel
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Ataturk and Pahlavi modernized and westernized their countries with the help of Europe and the United States, while Nasser modernized with the help of the Soviet Union.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 15 of 20
As a peace process continues in the Middle East, a major stumbling block to a settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict is the question of
ownership and operation of the Suez Canal
control of the Arabian Peninsula
representation of Palestinian Arabs and Israelis
land and civil rights for Palestinian Arabs
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Since the creation of Israel in 1948, the Palestinians have been denied a homeland of their own. This has caused violence between the Israelis and the numerous terrorist organizations that support the Palestinian cause.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 16 of 20
The Middle Eastern leaders Kemal Ataturk, David Ben-Gurion, and Yasir Arafat are best known for their support of
nationalism
fascism
colonialism
communism
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Ataturk was the leader of Turkey, Ben-Gurion of Israel, and Arafat of the Palestine Liberation Organization. All three followed a nationalistic policy in pursuit of their goals.



Conflict in the Middle East: Question 18 of 20
In the 1990’s, the action by the Israeli Government that has most divided Israeli society has been the decision to
grant control of part of the West Bank and Gaza Strip to the Palestinians
support the United States—led Allied Coalition during the Persian Gulf War
support the Camp David accords
oppose Islamic fundamentalist rule in Iran
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: In the 1990’s, Israel has slowly granted the Palestinians more land and self rule as a step in the peace making process. This has caused discontent among many Israelis.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 19 of 20
The response of the international community to Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait in 1990 best illustrates the
lack of cooperation between the major world powers
global acceptance of imperialism
effect of oil on world politics
ineffectiveness of United Nations peacekeeping forces
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait could have disrupted the world's oil supply. In response, a coalition of various oil dependent nations formed to oppose Iraq and liberate Kuwait.






Apartheid in South Africa: Question 2 of 9
In the Republic of South Africa, the primary goal of the African National Congress (ANC) has been to
eliminate communist influence
rule as the majority political party
create a united Africa
promote homeland areas for Blacks
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The African National Congress is composed of South Africa blacks who are the majority people in South Africa, but have been denied participation in the government by the minority white population. The ANC has sought to become the ruling party in South Africa for some time.


Apartheid in South Africa: Question 3 of 9
In the 1980’s, global concern for Blacks in the Republic of South Africa led many nations to
impose economic sanctions on South Africa
demand that Whites return to their European homelands
sent troops to South Africa
support policies of Apartheid
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: One of the many tools other nations used to end Apartheid was economic boycotts of South African products and services.




Apartheid in South Africa: Question 5 of 9
In which way has the end of apartheid had a positive economic effect on South Africa?
Black South African managers have increased industrial productivity throughout the nation
the introduction of communism has led to a more equal distribution of income
many foreign companies have resumed trading and investing in South Africa
all profits of South Africa’s industries are now reinvested out of the country
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Since the end of Apartheid, many nations have taken a renewed interest in conducting business with the people and government of South Africa.


Apartheid in South Africa: Question 6 of 9
Which statement best characterizes the period of apartheid in South Africa?
the majority of the population had the right to vote
the Boers attempted to conquer Nigeria
many racist ideas of the ruling minority were adopted into laws
French was declared the official language of the nation
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Apartheid was a series of laws that segregated and discriminated against the majority black population of South Africa. This policy was started and upheld by the minority white population who held all governmental power.


Apartheid in South Africa: Question 7 of 9
In the Republic of South Africa, the slogans “Freedom in Our Lifetime” and “New South Africa” changed from promises to reality after
Frederik W. de Klerk took over the radical white police force
Untied Nations troops occupied the Transvaal
Nelson Mandela was elected President
the majority of white South Africans returned to Europe
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The election of Nelson Mandela, a black South African, marked the beginning of a new era in South African history. Apartheid laws had been repealed and the government began working toward the equally of all of its citizens.


Apartheid in South Africa: Question 8 of 9
A major problem currently facing the Republic of South Africa is the
continuation of attacks from neighboring Zimbabwe
move toward the creation of a theocratic state
struggle for power between different groups within South Africa’s black majority
continued international economic embargo against South Africa
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Rival groups within South Africa’s majority black population continue to contend for control of the country.


Apartheid in South Africa: Question 9 of 9
Since the end of apartheid in South Africa, what has been one of the major challenges to the current government?
establishing diplomatic relations with Europe
resolving regional and ethnic rivalries
guaranteeing religious freedom for all groups
improving transportation throughout the country
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: South Africa, like many other African nations, is made up of many different ethnic groups. The current challenge is to build a government where all groups feel represented. This has proved difficult for other nations, and has often led to violence.


Collapse of Communism: Question 2 of 17
During the late 1980’s, the Soviet Union experienced internal unrest mainly as a result of
widespread protests against involvement in Afghanistan
a lack of raw materials and natural resources
a failure to use modern technology in the military
increased demands of minority ethnic groups
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: During the 1980’s, the diverse ethnic groups inside of the Soviet Union began to fight for autonomy and self government. This eventually led to the collapse of the Soviet Union.


Collapse of Communism: Question 3 of 17
During the presidency of Mikhail Gorbachev, which problem faced the Soviet Union?
ethnic minorities demanded the right of self-determination
agricultural production grew faster than food consumption
the nations of Eastern Europe insisted that the Soviet Union keep troops in Eastern Europe
Western European nations refused to trade with the Soviet Union
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: During the 1980’s, the diverse ethnic groups inside of the Soviet Union began to fight for autonomy and self government. This eventually led to the collapse of the Soviet Union.



Collapse of Communism: Question 5 of 17
During the 1980’s, Mikhail Gorbachev introduced Perestroika in the Soviet Union to
improve the economy and decentralize decision making
abandon arms treaties with the United States and Western Europe
tighten government controls over the communication media
suppress the growing nationalist movements in Eastern Europe
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Perestroika was an economic policy aimed at increasing production and strengthening the economy by introducing free market principles.


Collapse of Communism: Question 6 of 17
The revolt in Hungary (1956), the demonstrations in Czechoslovakia (1968), and the formation of solidarity in Poland (1980’s) are similar in that they
were movements in restore the power of the aristocracy
were tolerated by the communist leaders, who accepted the need for change
represented a challenge to communist leadership
represented attempts to rid these countries of western ideas and influence
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: At various times, different Soviet satellite states sought to free themselves from communist control.


Collapse of Communism: Question 7 of 17
One result of the collapse of the Soviet Union has been that
some former republics have reorganized the Warsaw Pact
ethnic violence has broken out in some regions
an era of peace and stability has emerged in most of the former republics
the republics have made an east transition to a market economy
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Ethnic groups have begun fighting for control over some of the regions once controlled by the Soviet Union.



Collapse of Communism: Question 10 of 17
The initial reaction of the Russian government to the fighting that broke out in Chechnya in the 1990’s demonstrated that Russia
is unwilling to grant independence to dissenting ethnic groups
has little control over its arsenal of nuclear weapons
will defend its remaining republics against foreign invasion
favors reestablishing communism
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Russia was unwilling to let Chechnya break away from the newly formed Russian Federation. This policy led to violence in this region.




Collapse of Communism: Question 13 of 17
Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the major problems in Eastern Europe and Russia have primarily resulted from the
high rate of illiteracy found in most of these nations
refusal of government leaders to allow foreign investments
switch from a command economy to a free-market economy
unwillingness of the industrialized nations to provide advisors
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Eastern Europe and Russia have faced many problems as they switch over to a free market economy.


Collapse of Communism: Question 14 of 17
In both former Yugoslavia and the former Soviet Union, the desire for self-determination is resulting in increased
collectivization
ethnic conflict
economic equality
educational opportunities
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Both nations are composed of diverse ethnic groups, each wanting self rule over nations of their own.


Collapse of Communism: Question 15 of 17
One reason for the collapse of the Communist economic system in Eastern Europe during the early 1990’s was that this system
lacked adequate incentives to maintain high productivity
used the principles of mercantilism
encouraged laissez-faire practices and policies
relied on the outdated law of supply and demand
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: A communist, or command economy, controls the means of production by having governmental agencies involved in production planning. This system provides very little motivation to maintain high productivity, as no one benefits but the government.


Collapse of Communism: Question 16 of 17
The destruction of the Berlin Wall in 1989 is symbolic of the
end of the Soviet domination of Eastern Europe
declining power of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)
fall of the Weimar Republic
collapse of the European Union
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The Berlin Wall was a symbol of Soviet control over Eastern Europe. The destruction of the wall symbolized the weakening of that control, as the Soviet Union began to break apart.


Collapse of Communism: Question 17 of 17
In the 1990’s under the leadership of Boris Yeltsin, Russia attempted to become
a democracy with a market economy
a dictatorship with a command economy
an autocracy practicing mercantilism
an oligarchy based on serfdom
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia has been working toward a democratic form of government with a capitalist economy.



Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 1 of 17
In many Latin American nations, the leadership roles assumed by the military and by the Roman Catholic Church evolved from
Native American beliefs
the development of the triangular trade
the effects of matriarchal societies
Spanish colonial rule
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: During the colonial period in Latin America, the clergy and members of the military were considered to be part of the elite.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 2 of 17
In many Latin American nations, which group has most resisted social and economic changes since the end of World War II?
poor farmers
the military
union leaders
the middle class
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: During the colonial period in Latin America, members of the military were considered to be part of the elite. Any social or economic change would result in the weakening of their positions in society.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 3 of 17
The main purpose of the Organization of American States (OAS) is to
integrate the economies of Latin American nations
encourage United States military involvement in the region
destroy the power of Colombian drug lords
provide a way to resolve regional problems peacefully
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The OAS was formed in 1948 to help promote democracy, human rights, and economic cooperation between nations of Latin America and the United States.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 4 of 17
During the last ten years, what has occurred in many of the nations of Latin America?
successful communist revolutions
an increase in the number of popularly elected leaders
a growing dependence on Cuba for economic support
a return to their former colonial status
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Since the end of the Cold War, many Latin America countries have begun forming democratic governments, as aid to communist dictators from the former Soviet Union has ended.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 5 of 17
Which group has been a major force in calling for the protection of human rights in Central America during the 1980’s and 1990’s?
Caudillos
military generals
Landowners
liberation theology clergy
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The liberation theology clergy has been instrumental in gaining support for the protection of human rights in Latin America.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 6 of 17
Brazil’s establishment of an equal partnership with foreign investors and Venezuela’s control of its highly profitable oil industry are examples of
Neocolonialism
new imperialism
economic nationalism
Fascism
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Latin America has nationalized many industries in an attempt to break from its colonial past, and control its own future.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 7 of 17
At the present time, which is a major economic problem for many Latin American governments?
increased settlement in rural areas
low rates of inflation
inability to pay foreign debts
lack of a chief executive
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Latin America has accumulated a large, foreign debt while building its industry and trade. This debt has created economic problems in recent years.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 8 of 17
Which major economic problem has been faced by many Latin American nations throughout their histories?
lack of capital for industrial development
declining birthrate
widespread acceptance of Marxist economic policies
lack of labor for factories
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Little investment capital has been available to Latin America due to its political instability, and the industrialized world's reliance on them as a market for their finished goods.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 9 of 17
During the 20th century, a major course of political problems in Latin American has been
a decrease in population
the declining importance of international trade
widespread poverty
increasing social mobility
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Continued political instability in the region has led to a weak economy and widespread poverty.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 10 of 17
Which has been an important factor that has discouraged investment in the economic developments of many Latin American nations?
lack of natural resources
history of colonial dependence
declining birthrate
political instability
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Political instability and the constant threat of violent revolution has made many investors reluctant to do business in Latin America.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 11 of 17
Which statement best describes the Roman Catholic Church in most Latin American countries in the 1980’s?
the activities of the church are controlled by the national governments
the church has confined its activities to religious issues
the church has become active in social and human rights issues
most people see the church as having little influence in daily life
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Catholic Church, along with other religious groups, has been a champion of social and human rights in Latin America.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 12 of 17
Which type of government has resulted from the changing political trends in much of Latin America during the 1990’s?
monarchy
military juntas
democracy
fascism
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Many Latin America countries are slowly forming democratic governments, as aid to communist groups has disappeared with the collapse of the Soviet Union.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 13 of 17
A major problem facing many Central American nations is that their nation’s wealth is
generally invested in consumer industries
controlled by a small group of landed elite
distributed throughout the large middle class
held mainly by government agencies
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Wealth in many Latin American countries is not distributed evenly. Instead, a small group of landowning elite control most of the economic power of these nations.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 14 of 17
In the 20th century, an economic weakness of many Central American nations has been
a reliance on monsoons for water to irrigate crops
an overdependence on one or two cash crops for export
chronic labor shortages caused by slow population growth
excessive investment in foreign manufacturing industries
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Many Latin American countries depend completely on one or two cash crops as the prime source of income. This has limited food production in some areas and led to periodic food shortages.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 15 of 17
Since World War II, what action have many Latin American nations taken to improve their economies?
reinforcing traditional farming methods
encouraging citizens to emigrate to other nations
adopting protectionist policies
encouraging industrial development
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Latin America has focused its economies an industrializing since World War II. The problem has been finding investment capital to begin such a process. This is difficult due to the continued political instability in the region.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 16 of 17
In Latin America during the 1960’s and 1970’s, which group became increasingly active in promoting human rights?
wealthy landholders
Roman Catholic clergy
successful industrialists
military leaders
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The Catholic Church, along with other religious groups, has been a champion of social and human rights in Latin America.


Political Unrest in Latin America: Question 17 of 17
Which political trend exists in present-day Latin America? 
Most countries are becoming military juntas.
Communism is spreading throughout the region.
Democracy is replacing dictatorship.
Religious leaders are making government policy.
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Many Latin America countries are slowly forming democratic governments, as aid to communist dictators has disappeared with the collapse of the Soviet Union.





Post-Cold War “Hot Spots”: Question 3 of 8
Recent events in the former nations of Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia reflect a nationalist trend of
dividing nations along ethnic lines
encouraging multiethnic cooperation
uniting nations with similar interests
supporting the development of a command economy
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Both former nations have divided themselves along ethnic lines creating new nations in the process.


Post-Cold War “Hot Spots”: Question 4 of 8
Disputes over India’s control of Kashmir, Jammu, and Punjab are examples of the continuing problem of
territorial claims based on religion
Chinese claims to this region
terrorist actions by Serbian refugees
the policy of nonalignment
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Ethnic and religious loyalties continue to cause problems around the world.


Post-Cold War “Hot Spots”: Question 5 of 8
One reason North Korea has been the focus of worldwide attention in the mid-1990’s is because of its
nuclear weapons development programs
commitment to increasing political freedoms
development of a strong and expanding economy
efforts to revive communism in Eastern Europe
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: North Korea has been developing nuclear weapons. This is of worldwide concern due to the instability of relations between the western world and North Korea.


Post-Cold War “Hot Spots”: Question 6 of 8
The major goal of many minority groups, such as the Kurds, Tamils, and Sikhs, is to
obtain self-rule and economic control of a homeland
establish a multicultural state
install Christianity as the state religion
acquire economic aid from the World Bank
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: All three are minority groups within larger countries. They all wish to have a homeland for themselves and self rule.


Post-Cold War “Hot Spots”: Question 7 of 8
Under the leadership of Fidel Castro, Cuba has become an example of
the success of democracy in improving conditions in a developing nation
a nation in which the efforts of the United Nations has improved human rights
a communist government struggling to maintain power despite economic problems
the successful reform of agriculture from single-crop to multicrop production
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Cuba has faced sever economic problems which have tested the leadership of Fidel Castro and his communist government.


Post-Cold War “Hot Spots”: Question 8 of 8
Since the end of the Cold War, Cuba has experienced
the loss of a major source of its foreign financial support
increased economic growth from expanded trade
expanded political influence in Latin American affairs
greater independence from Communist China
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Since the end of the Cold War, the support of the Soviet Union to such countries as Cuba has ended. This has caused economic problems in these places.
