History: Question 1 of 3
Which document is an example of a primary source?
a textbook on Russian history
an encyclopedia article on religions of the Middle East
a novel on the Age of Exploration
the diary of a survivor of a Nazi death camp
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: A primary source is firsthand information about people or events of the past, such as that found in a diary or a legal document.


History: Question 2 of 3
Which historical events are in the correct chronological order?
Crusades -> Renaissance -> Neolithic Revolution -> Roman Empire
Roman Empire -> Neolithic Revolution -> Crusades -> Renaissance
Renaissance ->Neolithic Revolution -> Crusades -> Roman Empire
Neolithic Revolution -> Roman Empire -> Crusades -> Renaissance
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Neolithic Revolution caused the development of agriculture and allowed humans to settle for the first time. The Roman Empire was was one of the most expanisve human civilizations ever recorded, but ended when tribes from Northern Europe invaded and finally took over Rome. Pope Urban II then launched the Crusades to kill all Muslims living in the Holy Land. This encouraged cultural diffusion which led to the rebirth of Europe, known as the Renaissance.


Geography: Question 1 of 31
Which statement best explains why most of the population of the people’s Republic of China live in the eastern third of the nation? 
best agricultural land is in the East
largest forests are in the East
best fishing areas are off the eastern coast
largest oil deposits are in the East
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The coastal region of China contain the best agricultural lands as well as access to the Pacific Ocean, making it much easier to live on than the interior of the country which is dominated by deserts and other harsh geographic features.


Geography: Question 2 of 31
Which is an accurate statement about Japan’s natural resources?
Japan has extensively used the seas for fishing
large reserves of petroleum are located in the northern part of Japan
Japan has large fertile plains suitable for growing grain
large coal and iron-ore deposits are located in the mountain region
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The Japanese archipelago has very limited natural resources. By far, the most abundant natural resources available to the Japanese is that which can be harvested from the surrounding ocean.


Geography: Question 3 of 31
In Japan, a major economic problem has been the lack of
natural resources
investment capital
skilled labor
experienced management
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The Japanese archipelago has very limited natural resources, which is the primary barrier to economic development there.


Geography: Question 4 of 31
Which statement best describes an effect that geography has had on Japan?
Japan’s smooth coastline has prevented the development of a fishing industry
Japan’s large plains have made wheat growing a primary industry
the lack of important natural resources has led Japan to depend on trade with other nations
the location of Japan has encouraged great ethnic diversity within the nation
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Besides what is available from the sea, there are very few natural resources available to Japan. Japanese manufacturing is heavily dependent on importing natrual resources which are then converted into products such as automobiles, electronics, and steel.


Geography: Question 5 of 31
Both Japan and Indonesia are made up of a chain of islands called
an archipelago
a peninsula
a delta
an atoll
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: An archipelago is defined as a chain of islands, which describes Japan and Indonesia perfectly.


Geography: Question 6 of 31
The term “Latin America” most accurately refers to the
areas of the Western Hemisphere south of the United States
countries that belong to the Organization of American States
continents of North and South America
countries that have close economic ties with Spain
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The term “Latin America” refers to the cultural region south of the United States. During the 1500s,Central and South America were taken over by Spain and Portugal, and as a result Spanish and Portuguese are the dominant languages and Roman Catholicism is practiced by most of the people living there today.


Geography: Question 7 of 31
Which generalization about geography of Latin America is accurate?
geographic features prevented foreign imperialism
harsh climatic conditions have prevented the development of large-scale agriculture
the lack of geographic barriers facilitated the development of transportation and communication systems
great variations in latitude and landforms resulted in a diversity of climates
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Latin America stretches from the Rio Grande River, continues past the Equator, and finally ends just north of Antarctica. Latin America also contains a variety of landforms including the Andes Mountains, the Amazon River Basin, Brazilian Highlands, and various deserts. Due to the variations in latitude and landforms, Latin America contains several different types of climate such as humid sub-tropical, humid continental, as well as dry desert regions.


Geography: Question 8 of 31
Which geographic factor has had the most influence on Poland's historical and cultural development?
a severe climate
vast deposits of oil
location on the great European Plain
a rugged coastline
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Throughout history, Poland has been an invasion route for invading armies entering and leaving Europe because its location on the great European Plain provides is easier to get through than treading over highlands or mountains.


Geography: Question 9 of 31
Which of these nations is located closet to the Philippines, Malaysia, and Indonesia?
Korea
Vietnam
Somalia
Pakistan
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: While Korea and Vietnam are both located in Southeast Asia, Vietnam is much closer to the Philippines, Malaysia, and Indonesia. Somalia is located on the Horn of Africa, and Pakistan is located near India in South Asia.


Geography: Question 10 of 31
One effect that mountain ranges, rain forests, and river systems have had on Latin America has been to
encourage cultural diffusion
limit the development of transportation and communication systems
permit the nations of the area to use a single form of government
allow the development of large amounts of arable land
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: These natural resources have made it difficult to develop transportation and communication systems because of the costs associated with building infrastructure in areas with dense vegetation, steep elevations, and rivers that are barely navigable.


Geography: Question 11 of 31
In addition to providing water for Indian agriculture, the Ganges River remains important to India because it is
the only source of Indian hydroelectric power
a sacred river for the Hindu population
the birthplace of Hindu culture
an unofficial boundary between the Hindus and Muslims
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Bathing in the Ganges river is said to wash away sins, and the river water is used in many religious rituals. Many Hindus ask to be cremated along the Ganges and to have their ashes placed in the river.


Geography: Question 12 of 31
An effect of a mountainous topography on Inca and Chinese civilizations was the development of
industrialization
single-crop economy
desalinization projects
terrace farming
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Terrace farming allows crops to be grown on the sides of elevated terrain. This agricultural practice was widespread among the Inca in the Andes Mountains and the early Chinese.


Geography: Question 13 of 31
A major effect of geography on Japan is that the
export of oil has helped Japan maintain a favorable balance of trade
fertile plains have enabled Japan to keep food prices low
mountains have prevented invasions obey foreign nations
scarcity of natural resources has forced Japan to obtain raw materials from other nations
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Japan has very few natural resources except the surrounding seas. Therefore, Japan takes advantage of its irregular coastline to promote trade with other countries. Raw materials are imported to Japan, and then turned into consumer goods such as automobiles and electronics, which are then exported to other nations.


Geography: Question 14 of 31
Which geographic factor has most strongly influenced Russia’s foreign policies and economic development?
lack of natural resources
vast desert regions
limited access to warm-water ports
extensive mountain ranges
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Historically, Russia has been land-locked due to the fact that much of its water access is located in the northern part of the country and is frozen for most of the year. This makes trading difficult because ships cannot get through these frozen waters safely. Events such as the Crimean War, in which Russia sought to gain control of the Dardanelles Strait between the Black and Aegean Seas, illustrates how this geographic factor has influenced Russia’s foreign policies.


Geography: Question 15 of 31
Many people in Southeast Asia hope for the timely arrival of the summer monsoons each year because
floods are the only way to water their farmlands
daily temperatures often reach 100 degrees Fahrenheit
little rain has fallen for many months
oases provide water for nomadic herders
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: In monsoon climates, moisture-bearing winds reverse direction once a year, creating a distinct wet season and a dry season. Thus, the people of Southeast Asia hope for the timely arrival of these seasonal rains in order to provide water for their crops.


Geography: Question 16 of 31
A topographical map would most likely be used to
identify the major agricultural products of Egypt
determine the population of Beijing, China
estimate the elevation of Bangkok, Thailand
count the number of provinces in India
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Topographical maps show the lay of the land, and thus would be ideal for use in estimating the elevation of Bangkok, Thailand.


Geography: Question 17 of 31
On a map of the world, Asia is to Japan as Europe is to
Great Britain
the Netherlands
Austria
Italy
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Asia is a continental landmass, and Japan is an island that is found just off the coast of Asia. In this same way Europe is a continental landmass and Great Britain is an island just off the coast of Europe.


Geography: Question 18 of 31
The Russian steppe is most similar in topography to the
mountains in Switzerland
deserts in the Middle East
rainforests in South America
savannas in Africa
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The savannas in Africa and steppes of Russia are both described as vast grassy plains.


Geography: Question 19 of 31
Areas of Africa and parts of Siberia in Russia are often said to be gems-in-the-rough because they have
extensive tracts of permanently frozen land
well-developed coastal fishing industries
many undeveloped natural resources
decreasing populations
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: These locations have immense reserves of undeveloped natural resources which are difficult to cultivate due to their problematic geography.


Geography: Question 20 of 31
In Africa, an effect of topography and climate has been to
encourage rapid industrialization of the interior
prevent the development of kingdoms
promote large-scale trade between African and Asia
promote the growth of diverse societies
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The various topographical and climactic features of Africa (e.g., Sahara Desert) have isolated cultures and promoted the growth of diverse societies.


Geography: Question 21 of 31
The Suez Canal, the Strait of Hormuz, and the Strait of Gibraltar are important because they
prevent attacks on bordering nations
control access to vital trade routes
limit Russian access to warm-water points
prohibit the movement of ships carrying nuclear weapons
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Each of these geographic features are examples of strategic waterways from around the world. They are strategic because they provide access to vital trade routes.


Geography: Question 22 of 31
Geographic diversity in the Middle East has contributed to
unequal standards of living
a common economic system
similar political systems
military alliances with Japan
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: While some nations in the Middle East have large reserves of oil, others do not, and therefore have little of value to trade with the rest of the world.


Geography: Question 23 of 31
The Suez Canal, the Panama Canal, and the Straits of the Dardanelles are similar because they
are strategic waterways that have been the center of conflicts
was part of the French colonial empire
are located in regions that are rich in natural resources
prohibit the movement of ships carrying nuclear weapons
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Each of these geographic features are examples of strategic waterways from around the world. They are strategic because they provide access to vital trade routes.


Geography: Question 24 of 31
The map shows that the



economies of all the regions of China are developing at the same rate
distribution of income in China is unequal
economies of the interior provinces of China are developing faster than those of the coastal provinces
economic development in China is dependent upon the cash crops of Xinjiang and Tibet
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: This map clearly shows that the distribution of income in China in unequal because income tends to be greater near the coastline.


Geography: Question 25 of 31
One factor that accounted for Chinese influence on traditional Japanese culture was the
continuous warfare between the countries
geographic location of the countries
refusal of western nations to trade with Japan
annexation of Japan into the Chinese Empire
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The close proximity of China to Japan aided in cultural diffusion between the two nations.


Geography: Question 26 of 31
Throughout the 1800’s, Russia was interested in acquiring Turkey mainly because Russia wanted
to maintain peace in the Middle East
access to the Mediterranean Sea
to reestablish the Byzantine Empire
the rich farmland of the Anatolian Plateau
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Historically, Russia has been land-locked due to the fact that much of its water access is located in the northern part of the country and is frozen for most of the year. This makes trading difficult because ships cannot get through these frozen waters safely. Events such as the Crimean War, in which Russia sought to gain control of the Dardanelles Strait held by Turkey and located between the Black and Aegean Seas, illustrates how this geographic factor has influenced Russia’s foreign policies.


Geography: Question 27 of 31
Which geographic factor has contributed most to the economic growth of Japan, Egypt, and Great Britain?
variety of natural resources
reliable amount of rainfall
abundance of arable land
access to important waterways
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Access to important waterways, such as the Pacific Ocean for Japan, the Nile River for Egypt, and the Atlantic Ocean for Great Britain often leads to trade, an important factor in the economic growth of these nations.


Geography: Question 28 of 31
In which way have the Andes Mountains and the Amazon rain forest affected the development of Latin America?
promoting international unity
increasing cultural diversity
encouraging trade agreements
strengthening political alliances
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Mountains and rainforests often provide a barrier to cultural diffusion. This allows civilizations to develop independent of others, and sometimes creates a sense of ethnocentrism.


Geography: Question 29 of 31
Which geographic factor has helped China remain isolated for many centuries?
many natural harbors
navigable river systems
severe climate
northern and western mountain ranges
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Mountains often provide a barrier to cultural diffusion. This allows civilizations to develop independent of others, and sometimes creates a sense of ethnocentrism.


Geography: Question 30 of 31
Which statement best describes an impact of topography on eastern Europe?
Many different languages, religions, and customs developed.
A Russian czar ruled the area as a single empire.
An extensive single-crop agricultural system emerged.
Neighbors who were more powerful could not invade the region.
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Various geographical features, such as, rivers, mountains, and plains, can cause civilizations to develop differently depending on their needs for survival.


Geography: Question 31 of 31
Which geographic factor was most important to the development of the early river valley civilizations?
fertile soils
high mountains
vast deserts
smooth coastlines
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The fertile soils along the river valleys allowed the early peoples to grow enough food to increase their population. This in turn led to the creation of civilizations.

Economics: Question 1 of 20
Which factor contributes most to the recurring food shortages in Africa?
poor distribution of agricultural products
extensive river systems
location between two major oceans
rainforest environment
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The poor distribution of agriculture resources causes yearly food shortages in some parts of Africa.


Economics: Question 2 of 20
Which condition is a major obstacle to economic development in the Middle East and Northern Africa
use of strip mining to obtain minerals
reliance on capitalist economic systems
lack of access to world markets
scarcity of water resources
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The scarcity of water in these regions is a major obstacle to economic development because it is essential for the survival of humans and would be too costly to import.


Economics: Question 3 of 20
Singapore and Hong Kong have become major economic powers by taking advantage of their
abundant mineral resources
imported cheap labor from Japan
profits from agricultural surpluses
favorable location on international trade routes
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: As coastal cities in Southeast Asia, Hong Kong and Singapore have become major economic powers by providing services needed to facilitate trade.


Economics: Question 4 of 20
Throughout the 1800’s, Russia was interested in acquiring Turkey mainly because Russia wanted
to maintain peace in the Middle East
access to the Mediterranean Sea
to reestablish the Byzantine Empire
the rich farmland of the Anatolian Plateau
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Russia was effectively land-locked because its only access to ports was in arctic waters with ice that prevented shipping. Thus, gaining warm-water ports has been a major influence on Russian foreign policy because it would increase Russian trade.


Economics: Question 5 of 20
Which conclusion can be drawn from the information in the chart?


Developing countries are instituting programs to limit the growth of their populations.
Infant mortality is a greater problem in Africa than in Asia.
The nations with relatively low birthrates have relatively high per capita incomes.
The national birthrate is determined by many different factors.
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Iron Law of Wages states that a low population will mean a higher income as labor resources are more valuable.


Economics: Question 6 of 20
A comparison of Japan’s policies before 1945 with the policies in effect after 1945 indicates that
reduction in spending on military goods leads to economic depression
dependence on foreign trade usually leads to a weakened national economy
territorial aggression is not necessary to secure national economic goals
democratic institutions hinder economic growth
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Japan has managed to build a thriving economy without the need for the territorial acquisition policies they exhibited before the end of World War II.


Economics: Question 7 of 20
A study of Japan’s economy since World War II would lead to the conclusion that
a. government support of technological advances can improve a nation’s economic position
a. imperialism is necessary form the economic development of a nation
a. a communist system leads to economic prosperity
a. the feudal system is more economically productive than the market system
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The Japanese government is very supportive of industry. This partnership between government and business has worked to build a very strong economy in Japan.


Economics: Question 8 of 20
Which situation has contributed most to recent Japanese economic growth?
The Japanese government has place limits on Japanese exports.
Japanese industries spend very little on the research and development of new products.
The Japanese government and Japanese businesses have cooperated with each other.
Japanese citizens save less of their incomes than the citizens of other industrialized nation do.
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Japanese government is very supportive of industry. This partnership between government and business has worked to build a very strong economy in Japan.


Economics: Question 9 of 20
The emergence of Japan as a world economic power has been based mostly on Japan’s
development of nuclear power
abundance of fossil fuels
strong traditional of military rule
business enterprise and organization
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Japanese businesses are very well regulated and organized. This has enabled them to out compete competitors around the world and help build a very strong economy in Japan.


Economics: Question 10 of 20
In recent years, which factor has been a major reason for the economic tensions between the United States and Japan?
Japan’s trade deficit with the United States was very high
the United States refused to place quotas on Japanese goods
the United States imported more from Japan than it exported to Japan
Japan lowered tariffs on goods imported from the United States
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The United States currently has a trade deficit with Japan. This has caused some consumers in the U.S. to boycott Japanese goods in favor of products made in the U.S.A..


Economics: Question 11 of 20
Since World War II, people in both Africa and Latin America have moved from rural to urban areas. The major cause of this movement has been the
rejection of traditional custom
expectation of improved economic opportunities
guarantee of better housing
fear of civil war
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: People in both regions have moved to the cities in hopes of greater economic opportunities. This is known as urbanization, and is common in many third world nations.


Economics: Question 12 of 20
Which factor best accounts for the existence of cash-crop production as a major form of agriculture in many Central American nations today?
demand of world markets for such crops
lack of modern agricultural technology
inadequate supply of water and other natural resources
peasant ownership of most farmlands
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Many Latin American nations rely on one or two cash crops as the basis of their economies. This is due to the demand of the world market for such products, and the inability of Latin America to attract sufficient capital investment for industrialization.


Economics: Question 13 of 20
Economic development in Japan after World War II and in Communist China since the 1980’s is similar in that both nations have sought to
end foreign investment
develop their vast natural resources to achieve economic growth
utilize the concepts of capitalism to improve their economies
nationalize most major industries and restrict competition
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Japan and China have nationalized most major industries in an effort to limit foreign competition in their countries.


Economics: Question 14 of 20
During the 1980’s and 1990’s, the economic policies of China, supported by Deng Xiaoping, have led directly to
an expansion of China’s colonial empire
an increase in trade with the West
a return to a strict command economy
the success of the commune system
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: During the 1980s and 1990s, China has opened its markets to foreign trade, and began exporting a variety of products to the world market.


Economics: Question 15 of 20
Which statement best explains China’s economic shift toward capitalism in the 1980’s and early 1990’s?
China’s economic policies were directly influenced by the success of the Soviet economic system
the Tiananmen Square massacre resulted in major economic reforms in China
the success of the Cultural Revolution resulted in the increased westernization of China
communist economic policies were not meeting the needs of the society
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The shift to a more capitalistic economy has been due to the dismal failure of communism as an economic system.


Economics: Question 16 of 20
One principle in the theory of mercantilism is that colonies should be
granted independence as soon as possible
considered an economic burden for the colonial power
encouraged to develop their own industries
acquired as markets and sources of raw materials
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Mercantilism is an economic system where a country’s wealth is based upon exporting more products than it imports. To accomplish this, a country must have colonies to provide raw materials, and also to provide a market for the finished products.


Economics: Question 17 of 20
Which statement best describes how a command economy functioned in the Soviet Union?
The laws of supply and demand controlled the economy.
Trade policies mandated that imports exceed exports.
The success of the agricultural sector controlled the price of manufactured goods.
A central authority determined the type and quantity of goods to be produced.
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: A communist, or command economy, controls the means of production by having governmental agencies involved in production planning.


Economics: Question 18 of 20
To maintain its economic position, Japan has often limited the number of cars or the quantity of farm products that the United States can sell in Japan. Japan has imposed these limits to develop
an equality-of-trade position
a favorable balance of trade
a more open market
a belief system
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Japan has limited the amount of products it imports from the United States to protect its native industries. This has created a favorable balance of trade for Japan.


Economics: Question 19 of 20
The economic policy of mercantilism first developed during the
Age of Exploration
Enlightenment
Cold War
Green Revolution
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Mercantilism is an economic system where a country’s wealth is based upon exporting more products than it imports. To accomplish this, a country must have colonies to provide raw materials, and also to provide a market for the finished products. This was the system in use during the Age of Exploration.

Political Science: Question 1 of 16
Which generalization about democracy is most valid?
democratic political systems require a highly industrialized society
democratic governments first evolved in North America
democratic governments prevent their citizens from traveling abroad
democratic governments protect basic civil liberties
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Civil liberties are simply the rights held by citizens of a nation. In order for a democracy to exist, civil liberties must be protected to allow citizens to be able to elect their leaders.


Political Science: Question 2 of 16
Which factor is necessary for the development of democratic institutions?
strong military forces
respect for individual rights
a one-party system
an agricultural economy
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Democracies are founded upon civil liberties, which are the individual rights of each citizen. Without respect, for these rights, there cannot be a democracy.


Political Science: Question 4 of 16
Democracy in modern Japan resulted primarily from
Shinto and Buddhist beliefs about equality and justice
reforms imposed by the United States after World War II
a history of imperial justice under the constitution of the Emperor
the diffusion of ideas and practices from China and Korea
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: After World War II, the United States imposed democratic reforms on Japan as a way of insuring peace for the future. These reforms led to the creation of a Parliamentary Democracy.


Political Science: Question 5 of 16
After the breakup of the Austro-Hungarian Empire and the Soviet Union, new nations were formed. Which generalization accurately reflects the effect of the breakup on these new nations?
new nations are generally too poor and weak to become active members of the United Nations
new nations rarely use their limited resources to wage war
national and ethnic differences often lead to instability and violence in new nations
self-determination generally leads to democratic forms of government in new nations
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Instability and violence are often caused by the pursuit of self determination by each ethnic group.


Political Science: Question 6 of 16
Which statement describes a characteristic of the British parliamentary system today?
the Prime Minister is elected by the majority party in Parliament
the monarch serves as a strong head of state
the members of the House of Commons are appointed for life
the minority party has no vote in the Parliament
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: A parliamentary democracy is a government ruled democratically by a national representative body that has supreme legislative powers. This Parliament is controlled by a Prime Minister who is elected by the majority party.


Political Science: Question 7 of 16
Which political system is the basis of Japan’s government today?
parliamentary democracy
military dictatorship
absolute monarchy
national socialism
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: A parliamentary democracy is a government ruled democratically by a national representative body that has supreme legislative powers. This Parliament is controlled by a Prime Minister who is elected by the majority party.





Political Science: Question 10 of 16
What did Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels believe would be the result when communism finally emerged as the dominant political and economic system?
Only two classes would exist in society.
All the evils of industrial society would disappear.
The Soviet Union would become the world’s only superpower.
Citizens would own their individual homes and farms.
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Marx and Engels believed that their economic and political system would create a classless society where the means of production would be controlled by the working class, and a fair distribution of wealth would exist.


Political Science: Question 11 of 16
A similarity of the rule of the ancient Mongols and the ancient Greeks is that both
protected the human rights of the peoples they controlled
destroyed the civilizations they defeated
remained isolated and peaceful for centuries
established vast empires and spread their cultures to the people they conquered
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Both the Mongols and Ancient Greeks established empires that allowed the spreading of ideas through cultural diffusion.


Political Science: Question 12 of 16
The code of Hammurabi is an example of
written rules for legal procedures
the power of strong kings to control trade
regulations on the way to conduct wars against neighboring nations
the power of a legislature to veto laws passed by absolute monarchs
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Hammurabi’s Code was the first major collection of laws in history. It contain both criminal law, dealing with murder and theft, and civil law dealing with private rights and matters, such as business contracts and property inheritance.


Political Science: Question 14 of 16
The Magna Carta, the Glorious Revolution, and the writings of John Locke all contributed to Great Britain’s development of
absolute monarchy
ethnic rivalries
parliamentary democracy
imperialist policies
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: A parliamentary democracy is a government ruled democratically by a national representative body that has supreme legislative powers. This Parliament is controlled by a Prime Minister who is elected by the majority party.


Political Science: Question 15 of 16
In the Soviet Union, Joseph Stalin governed by means of secret police, censorship, and purges. This type of government is called
democracy
totalitarian
limited monarchy
theocracy
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: A totalitarian state is a nation in which the government controls every aspect of citizen’s lives through a single party dictatorship. The methods often include the use of censorship, secret police, and terror.


Culture: Question 1 of 50
Which aspect of a nation’s culture is most directly influenced by the physical geography of that nation?
form of government
religious beliefs
population distribution
social class system
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: People tend to live where there are abundant and easily attainable natural resources. These resources tend to attract industry and provide food and shelter.


Culture: Question 2 of 50
One reason the cultures of North Africa developed differently from the cultures of the rest of Africa was that these areas of Africa were separated by the
Congo River Basin
Great Rift Valley
Sahara Desert
Arabian Sea
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Sahara Desert has acted as a natural barrier in Africa which resulted in the diffusion of Middle Eastern culture in North Africa, while Sub-Saharan Africa maintained a variety of traditional cultures until the beginning of the Slave Trade and imperialism practiced by Europeans during the Scramble for Africa.


Culture: Question 3 of 50
In China, the development of ethnocentrism was most influenced by
its historic reliance on foreign nations
a long history of democratic government
a strong belief in Christianity
its geographic isolation
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Gobi Desert to the North, the Himalayan Mountains to the Southwest, and the seas to the East all contribute to the geographic isolation of China. This isolation hindered cultural contact for many years which resulted in China considering itself the “Middle Kingdom,” or the center of human civilization.


Culture: Question 4 of 50
In most societies, works of art and architecture generally serve to
satisfy the needs of the leaders
limit the influence of religion
reflect the values of that society
express opposition to the government in power
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Art and architecture have typically been seen as a window to the values of the society in which they are created. Examples include the appreciation of the human ideal expressed in the works of many Renaissance artists which contain human nudes, such as Michelangelo's famous statue of David.


Culture: Question 5 of 50
In modern African nations, the continued strength of the tribe or ethnic group is a reflection of the continuing influence of
European imperialism
urban growth
the slave trade
traditional cultures
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The tribalism, which often crosses national boundaries in modern-day Africa, illustrates the influence that traditional culture still has in that region of the world.


Culture: Question 6 of 50
Traditional African art has had the greatest influence on
classical Roman mosaics and pottery
Renaissance painting
20th century sculpture and painting
Medieval European architecture
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Elements of traditional African art, such as abstract patterning rather than representation, can be seen in many examples of 20th century sculpture and painting.


Culture: Question 7 of 50
Which generalization is characteristic of most traditional societies?
people move from city to city seeking new jobs
sons learn the same trades as their fathers
a high degree of social mobility exists
all people have the same economic opportunities
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: In traditional societies, economic opportunities are limited to that which is practiced in the family. An example is that in traditional societies, sons learn the same trades as their fathers.


Culture: Question 8 of 50
Recent archeological studies suggest the theory that
the earliest humans evolved in the Rift Valley in Africa
farming societies developed before hunting and gathering societies
all the continents were settled at about the same time
the wheel was used by all ancient societies
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Australopithecines, one of the earliest known human relatives, dates back 5 million years and was discovered in the Rift Valley of Africa.


Culture: Question 9 of 50
Which factor has contributed most to the social and cultural identity of the Middle East?
political stability of the region
ability of the region to export oil
lack of foreign involvement in the region
strong influence of Islam on the region
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Islam is the dominant religion practiced in the cultural region knows as the Middle East, and has thus maintained the social and cultural identity of this region.


Culture: Question 10 of 50
The Chinese called their land “Middle Kingdom.” Europeans often used the term “backward” to refer to China. These statements best illustrate
the failure of geographers to establish a universal terminology
the importance of East Asia in world history
the adoption of policies of nonalignment
attitudes of ethnocentrism in both cultures
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Ethnocentrism refers to the idea that one holds their own culture to be superior to all others. Both of these statements illustrate the ethnocentric attitudes of both the Chinese and Europeans.


Culture: Question 11 of 50
Geographic isolation of a people frequently reinforces
a traditional way of life
the development of scientific investigation
the need for higher education
a process of cultural diffusion
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Geographic isolation severely limits opportunities for cultural diffusion, so that a society that is isolated may maintain its traditional ways.


Culture: Question 12 of 50
In most societies, urbanization has
weakened traditional values and life patterns
strengthened the influence of the extended family system
discouraged economic growth
promoted population growth
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The process of urbanization brings many people from different backgrounds together in one place. Thus, through the exchange of ideas from different people, traditional values tend to be weakened.


Culture: Question 13 of 50
Which statement cites an example of cultural diffusion?
Venezuela has large reserves of oil
young people dance to rock music in Russia
students in China learn calligraphy in school
the Caste system is an important part of life in India
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Cultural diffusion refers to the sharing of ideas between different societies. Since rock music was pioneered in the United States, it can be safely assumed that it has been transmitted to Russia and adopted by young people there.


Culture: Question 14 of 50
In most traditional societies, the teaching of values is mainly the responsibility of the
judicial system
government
educational system
family
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Families are the center of most traditional societies, and this is where values would be taught to the young.


Culture: Question 15 of 50
The study of culture primarily involves
observing the physical environment of people
learning why various peoples live as they do
understanding the technology of modern machinery
analyzing the personalities of children in the same family
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Culture refers to all of the things that make up daily life for people. Therefore the study of culture involves learning why people live as they do.


Culture: Question 16 of 50
Extended families and limited social mobility are characteristic of
constitutional monarchies
polytheistic religions
traditional societies
socialist economies
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: In traditional societies, families tend to consist of parents, children, and other extended relatives (e.g., grandparents, aunts, uncles, etc.). Children of these societies also are trained to do the same work as their parents, thus limiting their opportunities for social mobility.


Culture: Question 17 of 50
People in both Japan and India eat very little meat. A study of these cultures would show that
although these cultures have similar practices, the reasons for these practices differ
the raising of cattle in both nations is very difficult due to the extreme climate
neither culture is concerned with health issues
the governments of both nations enforce strict dietary laws
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The Japanese eats very little red meat due to the abundance of life in the sea surrounding them, while many Indians practice Hinduism in which they believe in the cycle of reincarnation. Therefore, to a Hindu, eating animal flesh might constitute a form of murder.


Culture: Question 18 of 50
The dominance of the Spanish language in Latin America and continued use of the French language in Senegal are examples of
cultural diffusion
social mobility
humanism
Marxism
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: These languages are not native to these areas. Rather, they were brought by Europeans practicing imperialism and are therefore a form of cultural diffusion.


Culture: Question 19 of 50
Which activity is the best example of cultural diffusion in Africa?
weaving kente cloth in Ghana
using masks in traditional African ceremonies
discovering bronze sculptures from Benin
practicing of Islam in Nigeria
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Islam was founded in Saudi Arabia and was transmitted throughout the Middle East, India, and northern Africa.


Culture: Question 20 of 50
Which statement about India is a fact rather than an opinion?
most Indians are happy with the Hindu practice of arranged marriages
India is fortunate to have a multiparty system of government
The Mongols ruled India for more that 100 years
the partition of British India in 1947 helped India prosper
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Mongol rule in India is the only answer that is based on historical fact, while the other answers represent opinions.


Culture: Question 21 of 50
Which reference would be used to find the most recent information about the gross domestic product (GDP) of a nation?
historical atlas
thesaurus
world almanac
dictionary
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Statistical information such as the GDP of a specific country can be most easily found in a world almanac. A dictionary and thesaurus each contain linguistic information, and an historical atlas would contain maps from different historical periods.


Culture: Question 22 of 50
Culture is sometimes referred to as “a blueprint for living” because it
flourished best in traditional societies
includes all the things that contribute to a society’s development
is determined by genetics
determines the types of jobs offered to the members of a society
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Culture is comprised of all the things that make up daily life in an area.


Culture: Question 23 of 50
In many African nations, a major result of migration from rural to urban areas has been
a strengthening of traditional values
a decline in employment opportunities for educated Africans
a weakening of ancestral lines and kinship bonds
increased agricultural productivity
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The process of urbanization brings many people from different backgrounds together in one place. Thus, through the exchange of ideas from different people, traditional values tend to be weakened.


Culture: Question 24 of 50
Which statement about Japan is a fact rather than an opinion?
Japanese family values have declined with modernization
many of Japan’s cultural traditions were borrowed from China
rapid industrialization has caused few problems for the Japanese people
traditional farming techniques in Japan were better than modern ones
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The transmission of Chinese culture to Japan is the only answer based in historical fact, while the other answers represent opinions.


Culture: Question 25 of 50
One similarity between the culture of traditional China under dynastic rule and the culture of modern China under communism is that both stress
a state-supported religion
loyalty to the authority of leaders
the importance of a matriarchal society
limits on population growth
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Both Confucianism and communism in modern China have emphasized loyalty to the authority of leaders.


Culture: Question 26 of 50
The ancient Chinese expression “Middle Kingdom” and the European terms “Near East” and “Far East” best reflect
the impact of the Enlightenment on global thinking
an improved knowledge of world geography
an objective view of the world’s cultures
the influence of ethnocentrism on geographic perspective
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Both statements reveal that each culture is basing their perspective of the world on their own geographic location.


Culture: Question 27 of 50
The accusations of witchcraft in 17th century England and the practice of foot-binding in 19th century China are examples of the
discrimination against women in various cultures
negative aspects of a matriarchal society
gradual improvement of women’s rights around the world
respect give to mothers in traditional cultures
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Both of these statements are examples of discrimination against women because they involve the maiming or killing of women.


Culture: Question 28 of 50
Buildings such as the Gothic cathedrals in Western Europe and the Parthenon in ancient Greece reflect each society’s
imperialistic attitudes
cultural values
belief in democracy
rigid social structure
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Both buildings functioned as places of worship in these societies. Therefore, they reflect the particular religious beliefs of each society. These beliefs are part of their cultural values.


Culture: Question 29 of 50
Before towns and cities can develop in a society, the society needs to establish
an educational system
an agricultural surplus
a writing system
a democratic government
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Before humans were able to settle down in one place, they needed to provide enough food for the community. This shift in society from hunting-gathering to agriculture is known as the Neolithic Revolution.


Culture: Question 30 of 50
Which statement best supports the idea that cultural diffusion has greatly affected Southeast Asia?
the population of Southeast Asia is concentrated in rural areas
monsoon climates affect food production in Indonesia
a reliance on subsistence agriculture remains a problem for many Southeast Asian economies
Buddhism, Hinduism, and Islam are practiced throughout Southeast Asia
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Buddhism and Hinduism originated in India while Islam was founded in the Middle East. These were transmitted to Southeast Asia through the process of cultural diffusion.


Culture: Question 31 of 50
In India, which aspect of society has been most heavily influenced by religious beliefs, tradition, and the division of labor?
caste system
policy of neutrality
urbanization
parliamentary government
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The Caste System ranked Hindus by class and divide labor among them. For example, at the top of this system, the Brahmin were considered the holy class, while untouchables were considered out of caste and were only allowed to do the most menial jobs.


Culture: Question 32 of 50
One similarity between the cultures of traditional China and traditional Japan was that
the educated class was held in high esteem
religion played a minor role in society
social mobility was encouraged
the people elected the political leaders
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Both China and Japan have traditionally held teachers and the educated in high regard.


Culture: Question 33 of 50
The invention of writing systems and the growth of cities occurred only in civilizations that
originated in south Asia
developed matriarchal leadership
developed complex institutions
borrowed heavily from the Greeks and Romans
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: A sophisticated level of organization is required for civilizations to develop writing systems and cities.


Culture: Question 34 of 50
A sociologist interested in Indian culture would most likely focus on the study of
Hinduism and its influence on life in India
India’s development of nuclear weapons
the parliamentary government of India
the influence of agricultural production on India’s Gross national Product (GNP)
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Sociologists are interested in human social relationships and would therefore be most likely to study the effect of Hinduism on life in India.


Culture: Question 35 of 50
In India, the Caste System determined a person’s occupation, personal associations, and marriage partner. This situation shows that the Caste system
has helped eliminate ethnic and religious rivalries
has promoted social mobility within Indian society
has been stronger in urban areas that in rural areas
has been a way of life as well as an element of religion
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Caste System originated in Hinduism and has influence many facets of life in India.


Culture: Question 36 of 50
During the centuries of dynastic rule, the Chinese rejected other cultures as inferior to their own. This situation illustrates the concept of
ethnocentrism
imperialism
social mobility
cultural diffusion
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Considering one’s own culture to be superior to that of others is an example of ethnocentrism.


Culture: Question 37 of 50
Which statement best describes the status of women in most traditional Asian societies?
women were encouraged to obtain an education
women were expected to run for political office
women were expected to dedicate their lives to their families
women were encouraged to work outside the home
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Women in most traditional Asian societies have very few opportunities outside of the home.


Culture: Question 38 of 50
One result of the Neolithic Revolution was
an increase in the number of nomadic tribes
a reliance on hunting and gathering for food
the establishment of villages and the rise of governments
a decrease in trade between cultural groups
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Neolithic Revolution occurred 10,000 years ago when humans began to grow crops from seeds and domesticate animals. These developments allowed humans to establish villages and form governments.


Culture: Question 39 of 50
The Japanese feudal system and the Hindu caste system are similar in that both systems
promoted social mobility
developed a rigid class structure
encouraged the people to take part in government
resulted in economic opportunities for the lower classes
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Feudalism in Japan depended on a very rigid class structure in which the peasant labored for the upper class that provided them with land to live on and protection in times of warfare. Likewise, the Caste System which was reinforced by Hinduism in India, created a rigid class system consisting of priests, warriors, landowners, peasants, and the untouchables.


Culture: Question 40 of 50
Which situation best illustrates a traditional practice of women in Masai society?
a young woman leaving her village to attend a university in the capital city
an educated woman returning to her village to become leader of her tribe
a young woman marrying and her husband giving cattle to her family as a wedding gift
a young mother discouraging her children from practicing animism
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The presentation of a dowry, or wedding gift from the groom’s family to the bride’s family, is an example of something done mainly in traditional societies.


Culture: Question 41 of 50
The Japanese feudal system and the Hindu caste system are similar in that both systems
promoted social mobility
developed a rigid class structure
encouraged the people to take part in government
resulted in economic opportunities for the lower classes
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: All three of these societies had rigid class structures in which one was born into their social status with very few opportunities to advance socially.


Culture: Question 42 of 50
Which statement concerning modern Japan is most accurate?
Japan has modernized while maintaining some elements of its traditional culture
Japan has become a leader in global peacekeeping efforts
Japan has shown little concern for its natural environment
Japan has severed all traditional ties in favor of western values
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Japan followed the example of the West by modernizing, yet managed to retain their own culture during this process.


Culture: Question 43 of 50
The introduction of Buddhism into China and of Islam into Indonesia are examples of
social mobility
cultural diffusion
ethnocentrism
interdependence
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Cultural Diffusion is the spreading of ideas from one culture to another. This is accomplished through a variety of means such as trade and warfare.


Culture: Question 44 of 50
In a traditional society, the influence of an extended family decreases when that society is
being governed by a council of elders
experiencing rapid urbanization and industrialization
faced with a decreasing population
raising only enough crops to feed its people
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The process of urbanization brings many people from different backgrounds together in one place. Thus, through the exchange of ideas from different people, traditional values tend to be weakened.


Culture: Question 45 of 50
Which factor has been most responsible for the common culture found in Japan?
religious diversity
success of democracy
ethnic homogeneity
political instability
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Japan remained a closed society for centuries, which caused ethnic homogeneity. This resulted in a common culture among its people as little or no immigration was allowed until quite recently.



Culture: Question 47 of 50
The Church of the Holy Sepulchre, the Dome of the Rock, and the Western (Wailing) Wall are religious sites in Jerusalem. These sites symbolize the
Roman domination of the Mediterranean region in the 1st century
cultural diversity of the Middle East
limited architectural skills of builders in the Middle East
geographic isolation of the city
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: These places function as places of worship in these societies. Therefore, they reflect the particular religious beliefs of each society. These beliefs are part of their cultural values.


Culture: Question 48 of 50
Throughout much of history, both China and Japan held a common view that other nations were
valued sources of worthwhile knowledge
envoys of an advanced civilization
barbarians not worthy of their attention
sources of cheap labor and goods
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: This is an example of ethnocentrism, where a particular civilization considers itself to be superior to all others.


Culture: Question 49 of 50
Historians are interested in studying Maya ruins in Mexico, the haiku poetry of Japan, and the music of Chopin because such cultural and intellectual developments
reflect the values of that society
illustrate the economic status of individuals in that society
help to explain the role of geography in that society
reveal the political structure of that society
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Art, architecture, and music are examples of cultural achievements that often reflect a civilization's values.


Culture: Question 50 of 50
Which term is used to describe the spread of Buddhism from India through Southeast Asia?
ethnocentrism
isolation
imperialism
cultural diffusion
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Cultural Diffusion is the spreading of ideas from one culture to another. This is accomplished through a variety of means such as trade and warfare.