
Modern Issues: Economic Trends: Question 1 of 7
The main idea of this cartoon is that Japan
 


practices free trade
restricts foreign imports
has a policy of balanced trade
imports most of its ships
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Japan maintains a favorable balance of trade by restricting the amount of products imported into the country.


Modern Issues: Economic Trends: Question 2 of 7
Which action will help slow the trend indicated by the graph?
 


expanding Green Revolution technology
increasing industrialization in developing nations
using alternative energy sources
lowering worldwide oil prices
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The use of alternative energy sources is becoming of worldwide concern as oil resources become more scarce.


Modern Issues: Economic Trends: Question 3 of 7
Which conclusion can be drawn from the information in the chart?
 


Developing countries are instituting programs to limit the growth of their populations.
Infant mortality is a greater problem in Africa than in Asia.
The nations with relatively low birthrates have relatively high per capita incomes.
The national birthrate is determined by many different factors.
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Iron Law of Wages states that income will decrease as population increases. This is due to an abundance of inexpensive labor.


Modern Issues: Urbanization: Question 1 of 1
Which statement is best supported by the data in the graph?
 


The urban areas of Honduras and Panama require the largest supply of water in Central America.
Belize and Costa Rica are meeting the water needs of their urban population.
Urban water supplies are declining in many Central American countries.
Most Central American countries experienced a decrease in urban population between 1980 and 1988.
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Some countries in Latin America have experienced water shortages in their cities as the urban population continues to rise.



Modern Issues: Human & Women's Rights: Question 1 of 7
?What harms the victim most is not the cruelty of the oppressor, but the silence of the bystander.?
-Elie Wiesel


In this quotation, the author is suggesting that
totalitarian governments generally support civil liberties
nations of the world must always condemn human rights violations whenever they occur
ethnic cleansing is not an issue to be addressed by the United Nations
demonstrations against human rights violations are of limited value
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The author believes that the nations should work together to end human rights violations, wherever they may occur.


Modern Issues: Human & Women's Rights: Question 2 of 7
?United States Adopts Economic Sanctions Against South Africa?
?Chinese Dissidents Imprisoned After Student Protest?
?Kurds Forced To Flee Northern Iraq?

These headlines are similar in that each refers to the issue of
imperialist expansion
peasant revolts
human rights violation
isolationist policies
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Human rights violations occur in many nations around the world today. The United Nations and others are working to end such abuses in nations such as China and Iraq.

