Cross Topical: Question 1 of 41
In the Ancient Kingdom of Mali and in the Roman Republic, an important feature of life was the development of
codified laws
social and political equality
the Islamic religion
agricultural communes
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The Twelve Tables of Law from Rome and the establishment of codified law by Mansa Musa in Mali were both important developments in these societies.


Cross Topical: Question 2 of 41
Which statement best explains the periods of the Gupta Empire of India, the Golden Age of Greece, and the Renaissance in Italy?
the winning of a war often inspires scientific and artistic achievement
a combination of wealth and a time of relative peace often leads to cultural achievement
a dictatorship usually encourages cultural growth and development
periods of censorship are needed for a nation to achieve cultural and scientific greatness
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Times of peace allow societies to create great works and trade with their neighbors. This trade usually results in the accumulation of wealth and the exchange of ideas which allows for the development and adoption of new innovations.


Cross Topical: Question 3 of 41
One way in which Medieval European society, Latin American colonial society, and society in Imperial China were similar is that each
placed great value on public education
experienced a surplus of skilled labor
was organized according to a rigid class structure
de-emphasized the role of religion
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: All of these societies were contained rigid class structures that were nearly impossible to circumvent.


Cross Topical: Question 4 of 41
Which idea did Napoleon Bonaparte, Sun Yat-Sen, and Simone Bolivar have in common?
divine right
nationalism
totalitarianism
nonviolence
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Each of these men caused nationalism to develop in their respective country or region; Napoleon in early 1800’s France, Bolivar in early 1800’s Latin America, and Sun Yat-Sen in early 1900’s China.


Cross Topical: Question 5 of 41
Eighteenth-century Russia and nineteenth-century Japan were similar in that both countries
began the process of modernization after a long period of isolation
developed democratic governments after years under absolute monarchies
refused to accept western technological ideas
adopted socialist economic systems after capitalism had failed
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Throughout the 1700’s, both Peter the Great and Catherine the Great did much to modernize Russia by adopting ideas from the European Renaissance from which Russia had been isolated. Similarly, the Japanese Meiji Restoration rapidly industrialized Japan after the American Commodore Matthew Perry displayed industrial military power to convince the Japanese to open their ports to trade.


Cross Topical: Question 6 of 41
Until the 1500’s, China and Japan were similar in that both
were invaded by the Mongols
welcomed Christian Missionaries
had little contact with Western European nations
were developing democratic traditions
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Both China and Japan practiced isolationism until the 1500’s when Christian missionaries from Europe entered both countries.


Cross Topical: Question 7 of 41
During the Middle Ages, Europeans did not eat potatoes or corn because these vegetables
were forbidden by the Catholic Church for religious reasons
had not yet been introduced to Europe from the New World
were believed to be poisonous
were too expensive to import from China
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Potatoes and corn were brought to Europe by explorers returning from the Americas during the Age of Exploration which came after the Middle Ages.


Cross Topical: Question 8 of 41
One way in which Medieval European society, Latin American colonial society, and society in Imperial China were similar is that each
placed great value on public education
experienced a surplus of skilled labor
was organized according to a rigid class structure
de-emphasized the role of religion
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: All three of these societies had rigid class structures in which one was born into their social status with very few opportunities to advance socially.


Cross Topical: Question 9 of 41
The societies of traditional China, Feudal Japan, and Czarist Russia were all characterized by
a rigid class structure
much interaction with other cultures
great economic change
rapidly changing social values
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: All three of these societies had rigid class structures in which one was born into their social status with very few opportunities to advance socially.


Cross Topical: Question 10 of 41
One similarity between the decline of the Roman Empire and the fall of the Manchu Dynasty was that both initially led to
improved economic conditions
democratically elected governments
political chaos and decentralization of government
major accomplishments in art, science, and technology
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: After the Roman Empire fell in 476 CE, Europe was plunged into an extended period of feudalism which lasted nearly 1,000 years. When the Mancu Dynasty fell in 1911, China was ruled by local warlords until Mao Zedong’s communist victory in 1949.


Cross Topical: Question 11 of 41
The Japanese feudal system and the Hindu caste system are similar in that both systems
promoted social mobility
developed a rigid class structure
encouraged the people to take part in government
resulted in economic opportunities for the lower classes
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Both of these societies had rigid class structures in which one was born into their social status with very few opportunities to advance socially.


Cross Topical: Question 12 of 41
Eighteenth-century Russia and nineteenth-century Japan were similar in that both countries
began the process of modernization after a long period of isolation
developed democratic governments after years under absolute monarchies
refused to accept western technological ideas
adopted socialist economic systems after capitalism had failed
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Because of geographic isolation, Russia did not take part in the European Renaissance and did not begin to modernize until the reigns of Peter the Great and Catherine the Great in the 1700’s. Japan refused to allow European trade beginning in 1639. This foreign policy made it impossible for the Japanese to take part in the Industrial Revolution which started in Europe. Japan’s rapid industrialization began with the Meiji Restoration in 1868.


Cross Topical: Question 13 of 41
Changes in Russia under Peter the Great were most similar to changes that occurred in
China before the Opium War
Japan during the Meiji Restoration
Iran after the fall of Shah Pahlevi
France during the feudal period
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Because of geographic isolation, Russia did not take part in the European Renaissance and did not begin to modernize until the reigns of Peter the Great and Catherine the Great in the 1700’s. Japan refused to allow European trade beginning in 1639. This foreign policy made it impossible for the Japanese to take part in the Industrial Revolution which started in Europe. Japan’s rapid industrialization began with the Meiji Restoration in 1868.


Cross Topical: Question 14 of 41
The Tamils in Sri Lanka, the Sikhs in India, and the Zulus in South Africa have all attempted to
establish colonies in Asia
practice passive resistance
achieve political separatism
encourage mercantilism
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: As independence swept across the former European colonies, many minority groups within these new nations sought independence for themselves. This has led to turmoil and violence.


Cross Topical: Question 15 of 41
Which was characteristic of France under Napoleon’s rule and Germany under Hitler’s rule?
democratic ideas and diversity were encouraged
authoritarian control and a strong sense of nationalism prevailed
peaceful relations with neighboring countries wee fostered
artistic and literary freedom flourished
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Both Hitler and Napoleon encouraged nationalism among their citizens, while retaining absolute control of the government.


Cross Topical: Question 16 of 41
A study of the French Revolution and the Russian Revolution of 1917 would lead to the conclusion that
revolutions only occur when a majority of citizens become directly involved
university students are most often responsible for starting revolutions
control of revolutions often shifts from moderates to radicals
revolutions seldom result in long-term changes
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Both revolutions went through a moderate phase before coming under control of a more radical element. The radical phase of a revolution is generally characterized by widespread violence.


Cross Topical: Question 17 of 41
The French Revolution, the Bolshevik Revolution in Russia, and the Communist Revolution in China were similar in that all three
brought about few political changes
were influenced by the peasants’ desire for more land
were inspired by Marxism
were supported primarily by the nobility
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: All three revolutions were successful due to enormous support of the peasant class. Peasants in each nation supported the revolution in hopes of gaining land for farming and habitation.


Cross Topical: Question 18 of 41
The ancient Greek city-state of Sparta and the Soviet Union under Stalin were similar in that both societies
were primarily concerned with the health of their people
were powerful military states
granted universal suffrage to their people
placed great emphasis on literature and the arts
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Both Sparta and the Soviet Union under Stalin had government systems that attempted to control all aspects of the lives of their citizens. Both maintained this control through the use of a strong military.


Cross Topical: Question 19 of 41
In China, the building of the Great Wall, the use of the tribute system, and the government’s support of the Boxer Rebellion are examples of attempts by different dynasties to limit
foreign influence
nationalism
communist expansion
industrialization
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: China has maintained a policy of cultural isolationism. They have used various tools to limit incoming cultural diffusion.


Cross Topical: Question 20 of 41
The French Revolution of 1789 and the Cuban Revolution of 1959 were similar in that both were caused primarily by the
desire of the people to be free from foreign rule
pressure of religious leaders for government reform
failure of the government to meet the needs of the people
ambition of the upper class to attain wealth and property
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The French Revolution started because the government was unresponsive to the problems of the majority of the people, such as poverty and hunger. The Cuban Revolution, started by Fidel Castro, was a response to the oppressive and corrupt government of Fulgencio Batista.


Cross Topical: Question 21 of 41
The philosophies of Confucius and Mao Zedong both emphasized
individual rather than cooperative gain
industry rather than agriculture
group rather than individual welfare
religious values rather than economic profits
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Both Confucius and Mao Zedong promoted the idea of group welfare above individual desire.


Cross Topical: Question 22 of 41
Japan during the Meiji Restoration was similar to Japan after World War II in that during these periods Japan
pursued a foreign policy of isolationism and limited political freedoms
reduced the powers of the Emperor and the nobility
underwent political reform and economic expansion
was ruled by dictators and the military
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Both time periods represent a radical change in government, followed by an economic boom.


Cross Topical: Question 23 of 41
Since the late 1940’s, India, Northern Ireland, and Israel have faced the common problem of
adjusting to a post-Communist political and economic system
continued violent confrontations between different religious groups
economic depression as a result of rapid industrialization
uncertainty of their acceptance by the European Community
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: All three nations are inhabited by diverse ethnic and religious groups. This has led to violence repeatedly since the 1940’s.


Cross Topical: Question 24 of 41
The events that led to the overthrow of Czar Nicholas II in 1917 and to the forced resignation of Mikhail Gorbachev in 1991 show that
economic crises often lead to political change
Russian absolutism continued into the 1990’s
international conflicts often strengthen the power of leaders
Russia is an ethnically unified nation
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Russia was facing severe economic problems in both time periods. This type of problem often results in a change in government.


Cross Topical: Question 25 of 41
Events in both Eastern Europe in the early 1900’s and in the Soviet Union in the late 1980’s were mainly the result of
movements toward the repression of individual rights
declines in the use of advanced technology
the influence of religion on government
challenges by ethnic groups desiring independence
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union are inhabited by diverse ethnic and religious groups. This has led to violence in the past as each group sought autonomy and self determination.


Cross Topical: Question 26 of 41
During the late 1980’s and early 1990’s, the Soviet Union experienced ethnic tensions that were most similar to those experienced by
Japan in the early 17th century
Austria-Hungary in the late 19th century
Spain in the mid-18th century
Cuba in the late 20th century
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The former Soviet Union and the old Austria-Hungary Empire were inhabited by diverse ethnic and religious groups. This often led to violence in the past as each group sought independence and self determination.


Cross Topical: Question 27 of 41
The Holocaust in Europe and the actions of the Khmer Rouge in Kampuchea (Cambodia) were similar in that they were examples of
Interdependence
Segregation
Genocide
Empathy
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Holocaust was the systematic murder of the Jewish population in Europe by the Nazis. The Khmer Rouge also practiced a policy of genocide, killing millions in Cambodia during the 1970’s.


Cross Topical: Question 28 of 41
One similarity between Mao Zedong and Fidel Castro is that they
achieved their goals through the use of peaceful resistance
worked to protect citizens’ rights to freedom of expression
considered capitalism to be the best economic system
led revolutionary movements that established communist governments
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Mao Zedong led a revolution in the 1930’s and 1940’s which established a communist government in China. The revolution, started by Fidel Castro, established communism in Cuba in 1959. Both communist governments exist today.



Cross Topical: Question 30 of 41
A study of the policy of “ethnic cleansing” in Bosnia and the Holocaust in Europe would suggest that
world opinion is effective in stopping genocide
countries generally use reason and negotiation in dealing with important ethnic issues
anti-Semitism and ethnic hatred remain powerful forces in the 20th century
military leaders cannot be held responsible for acts committed during wartime
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Intolerance of other ethnic and religious groups has led to devastating violence in the 20th century. This continues to be a problem today, as evidenced by recent events in Bosnia and Rwanda.


Cross Topical: Question 31 of 41
Which factor has most limited the development of national unity in India, Lebanon, and Bosnia-Herzegovina?
lack of natural resources
inability to end colonialism
religious and ethnic differences
rapid growth of industry
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: All three regions are inhabited by diverse ethnic and religious groups. This has limited the development of national unity in these areas, and has often led to violence.


Cross Topical: Question 32 of 41
Both the Chinese Mandate of Heaven and the Japanese belief that the Emperor descends from the Sun Goddess are similar to the
“master race” theory of Adolf Hitler’s Third Reich
natural rights theory of the Age of Reason
divine right theory of the French monarchy
Marxist theory of a workers’ revolution
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Chinese Mandate of Heaven and the Japanese belief in the divinity of its Emperor are most similar to France’s divine right theory, which states that a King rules by right of being chosen by God.


Cross Topical: Question 33 of 41
One way in which the caste system and apartheid were similar is that both
described specific religious practices and beliefs
supported a rigid class structure
were created by British colonial governments
gave power to the lower classes in their respective societies
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The Hindu Caste system divided society up into many castes, each with its own rights and duties. Apartheid divided South African society between whites and blacks. Black South Africans enjoyed fewer rights and faced constant discrimination and segregation.


Cross Topical: Question 34 of 41
Within their respective nations, both Ho Chi Minh and Fidel Castro achieved their goals by
seeking aid and support from the European Union
using armed conflict to bring a communist government to power
following a policy of nonalignment
working to build a capitalist system
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Ho Chi Minh led the violent revolution that created a communist regime in Vietnam. Fidel Castro was the leader of a communist revolution in Cuba.


Cross Topical: Question 35 of 41
One way in which the Meiji Restoration in Japan and the Golden Age of India are similar is that in each region these events led to
the persecution of minority peoples
periods of rapid change
the rise of feudalism as the dominant political system
governments ruled by absolute monarchs
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The Meiji Restoration in Japan resulted in a radical change in government, and the rapid industrialization of the country. The Golden Age of India under the Gupta regime brought many advancements in such areas as science and technology.


Cross Topical: Question 36 of 41
The Sepoy Rebellion in India and the Boxer Rebellion in China were similar in that both were
attempts to improve foreign trade
nonviolent resistance efforts
revolts against foreign influence
revolutions against traditional monarchs
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Sepoy Rebellion was a revolt against British authority in India. The Boxer Rebellion was a similar revolt against British imperialist policy in China.


Cross Topical: Question 37 of 41
Suleiman held complete religious and political power. Charles I stormed the English Parliament. Peter the Great expanded serfdom in Russia. The actions of these leaders reflect the concept of
scientific theory
natural rights
mercantilism
absolutism
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Suleiman, Charles I of England, and Peter the Great of Russia all were absolute rulers. This term is defined as a ruler that has complete control over both government and society in their country.


Cross Topical: Question 38 of 41
What would a study of the recent civil wars in Cambodia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Rwanda show about these conflicts?
Ethnic conflict was not a factor in the late 20th century.
The United Nations was successful in resolving these disputes.
Genocide was used as a political and military tactic.
Civilians were not affected by these disputes.
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Genocide was a tool used in all three country’s civil wars. This resulted in the death of millions, and worldwide concern over the use of such tactics.


Cross Topical: Question 39 of 41
A similarity of the goals of Nelson Mandela and Mohandas Gandhi is that both leaders wanted to
secure political power for the majority of the people
encourage a greater degree of industrialization
improve the economy by expanding governmental control
gain independence from the Soviet Union
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Nelson Mandela fought to give rights to black South Africans, the majority population, while Gandhi worked toward ending British domination of India and restoring control back to the majority natives.




Cross Topical: Question 41 of 41
One way in which Simón Bolívar, Jomo Kenyatta, and Ho Chi Minh are similar is that each leader
sought independence from colonial rule
ruled during a period of peace and prosperity
demanded human rights for all citizens
established a totalitarian government
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Simon Bolivar was an independence leader in Latin America, Jomo Kenyatta did the same for Kenya, and Ho Chi Minh in Vietnam.



