
Early People & the Neolithic Revolution: Question 5 of 6
“If a seignior (noble) has knocked out the tooth of a seignior of his own rank, they shall knock out his tooth. But if he has knocked out a commoner’s tooth, he shall pay one-third mina of silver.”
-Code of Hammurabi

Which idea of Babylonian society does this portion of the Hammurabi code of law reflect?
all men were equal under the law
fines were preferable to corporal punishment
divisions existed between social classes
violence was always punished with violence
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The unequal justice afforded to these social classes indicates that clear divisions existed between social classes.




Religions & Philosophies: Question 4 of 26
“When I go to the office, I put on my shirt and I take off my caste; when I come home, I take off my shirt and I put on my caste.”

What is the main idea of this quotation?
the caste system continues to influence Indian society
the caste system has been reflected by most Indians
successful urban workers in India belong the same Caste
the Indian government officially supports the Caste system
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: While the Caste System has been outlawed in India, it is still a traditional custom which affects many Indians.


Religions & Philosophies: Question 20 of 26
“From as early as I can remember, the Emperor was an important presence even in our remote home. He was a descendant of the gods from thousands of years before, never to be looked at or listened to by mere mortals, a presence to be revered and protected and obeyed…Finally…, my family and neighbors gathered around the radio and listened in stunned silence to the voice that had never before been heard, saying he was only human after all. Everyone was crying. I was sad and confused…” 

The attitudes toward the Emperor expressed in this passage were based in the traditions of
Shintoism
Christianity
Islam
Judaism
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Shintoism is the Japanese religion that stresses the link between people and forces of nature. This also includes a belief in the divinity of the Japanese Emperors.


Religions & Philosophies: Question 21 of 26
“Beginning with childhood, all of man’s study is centered on one aim alone — to emerge successfully from the three days’ examination — and all he has in his mind is what success can bring to him in terms of power, influence, and prestige.”

-Ye Shib, Chinese scholar

This quotation refers to the Chinese
civil service system
social welfare system
contemplation of nature
religious practices
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The Chinese civil service exam centered on the teachings of Confucius. Confucianism teaches that society needs to be ordered. In such a society, individuals should know and do what is expected of them, and a follow a code of moral conduct.



Religions & Philosophies: Question 26 of 26
The Analects:

“In his [the leader] personal conduct, he was respectful. In his serving his superiors, he was reverent. In his nourishing the people, he was kind. In governing the people, he was righteous.”

— Confucius


These selections show that the ancient civilizations who developed these concepts placed emphasis on
anarchy
law
trade
architecture
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Confucianism teaches that society needs to be ordered. In such a society, individuals should know and do what is expected of them, and a follow a code of moral conduct.
