bababab
An influence that spread from the Byzantine Empire to Early Russia was the

Orthodox Christian religion
use of the Latin alphabet
beginning of democracy
factory system
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Christianity continued to thrive in the Byzantine Empire after the schism with the Catholic Church. Eventually, it became known as the Eastern Orthodox Church and spread throughout Russia.


Byzantine Empire: Question 3 of 3
Which empire introduced the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Cyrillic alphabet to Russia? 
Mongol
Byzantine
British
Gupta
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The Byzantine Empire introduced both the Eastern Orthodox Religion and the Cyrillic alphabet to the early Russian civilization.

Islamic Empires / Spread of Islam: Question 1 of 5
A major feature of the Golden Age of Moslem culture was the
political and economic isolation of the Arab world
development of the foundations of modern science and mathematics
adoption of democratic government
persecution of Jews and Christians
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The Arab World contributed greatly to modern science and mathematics during the Golden Age of Islam.


Islamic Empires / Spread of Islam: Question 2 of 5
Which factor helps explain the scientific and literary achievements of the Muslims during their Golden Age (A.D. 800-1300)?
expansion of trans-Atlantic trade
innovations introduced by the Europeans during the Renaissance
cultural diversity accepted by many Islamic governments
legal equality of all people in the Islamic empire
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: As Islam expanded, many governments in newly conquered areas recognized the rights of Arab and non-Arab Muslims as well as those of Jews and Christians.


Islamic Empires / Spread of Islam: Question 3 of 5
Mansa Musa’s journey to Mecca in the 1300’s is evidence that
the Crusades had a great influence on western Africa
most African leaders were educated in the Middle East
European culture was superior to the cultures of western Africa
Islam had a major influence on the Mali Empire
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Mansa Musa was fulfilling one of the Five Pillars of Islam by making a pilgrimage from Mali to Mecca. This indicates that Islam had a major influence on the Mali Empire, because one of its greatest rulers was a practicing Muslim.


Islamic Empires / Spread of Islam: Question 4 of 5
Which activity occurred during the Golden Age of Muslim culture?
destruction of books containing Greek and Roman ideas
beginning of pilgrimages to Mecca
opposition to freedom of thought and to foreign ideas by rulers
major discoveries in mathematics and science
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Arab World contributed greatly to modern science and mathematics during the Golden Age of Islam.


Islamic Empires / Spread of Islam: Question 5 of 5
The contributions of the Golden Age of Islamic civilization include
advances in mathematics
irrigation systems
polytheistic beliefs
gunpowder and guns
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The Arab World contributed greatly to modern science and mathematics during the Golden Age of Islam.



Medieval Europe: Question 1 of 21
In Europe during the Middle Ages, increases in trade and commerce resulted in
lower living standards for industrial workers
decreased economic rivalry between kings
increased political power for the clergy
development of towns and cities
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Medieval cities were supported by trade, exchange, production, consumption, and moneymaking. Many of the businesses that exist today, such as banks and corporations, can trace their ancestry to the Middle Ages.


Medieval Europe: Question 2 of 21
During the Middle Ages, Europeans did not eat potatoes or corn because these vegetables
were forbidden by the Catholic Church for religious reasons
had not yet been introduced to Europe from the New World
were believed to be poisonous
were too expensive to import from China
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Corn and potatoes were introduced to Europe after explorers returned with them from their voyages to the Americas.





Medieval Europe: Question 4 of 21
The Middle Ages in Western Europe was characterized by
the manor system and the importance of land ownership
absolute monarchies and strong central governments
decreased emphasis on religion in daily life
extensive trade with Asia and the Middle East
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Manorialism was the cornerstone of European society in the Middle Ages. Nobility who held land, the only thing of value during the period, ruled these manors.


Medieval Europe: Question 5 of 21
Feudal societies are generally characterized by
an emphasis on social order
a representative government
many economic opportunities
the protection of political rights
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Feudal societies such as those found in Europe during the Middle Ages and in Japan prior to the Meiji Resoration, are dominated by rigid class systems in which the landed nobility controlled the daily lives of those living on their property in exchange for providing protection for them.


Medieval Europe: Question 6 of 21
In Europe, a long-term effect of the Crusades was
the strengthening of the feudal system
the adoption of Islamic religious practices
an increased demand for goods from the East
increased European isolation
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: As Crusaders brought back spices and other goods from the encounter in the Middle East, demand for these products in Europe increased.


Medieval Europe: Question 7 of 21
The art, music, and philosophy of the medieval period in Europe generally dealt with
human scientific achievements
religious themes
materialism
classic Greek and Roman subjects
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Religious themes dominated the art of Europe during the Middle Ages because the Catholic Church was dominant in the lives of everyone during this era.

More Information


Medieval Europe: Question 8 of 21
Which statement best describes the result of the Crusades?
Europeans maintained a lasting control over much of the Middle East
Islamic influence dominated Europe
Europeans developed tolerance of Non-Christian religions
trade between Europe and the Middle East was expanded
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: While Europeans were unable to maintain control of the Holy Land in the Middle East, trade between the two areas increased as demand grew for the spices and other items brought back to Europe by the Crusaders.


Medieval Europe: Question 9 of 21
What were two indirect results of the Crusades?
trade and commerce increased and the feudal system was strengthened
trade and commerce declined and the feudal system was strengthened
trade and commerce increased and the feudal system was weakened
trade and commerce declined and the feudal system was weakened
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Crusades provided new opportunities for the serfs living on medieval manors in Europe to travel to the Middle East to fight the Muslims. As the Crusades ended, Europeans brought back spices and other items which caused trade between the two areas to increase.


Medieval Europe: Question 10 of 21
In Europe during the Middle Ages, the force that provided unification and stability was the
central government in Rome
military alliance between France and Germany
federation of the craft guilds
Roman Catholic Church
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Catholic Church was at the center of life in Europe during the Middle Ages.


Medieval Europe: Question 11 of 21
Feudalism in Western Europe was similar to feudalism in Japan in that
power was based on class relationships
equality among the social classes
direct democracy
monotheism
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Feudalism in Europe and Japan depended on a very rigid class structure in which the peasant labored for the upper class who provided them with land to live on and protection in times of warfare.


Medieval Europe: Question 12 of 21
Which is a characteristic of a feudal society?
rapid social change
high literacy rate
industrial-based economy
rigid class structure
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Feudalism in Europe and Japan depended on a very rigid class structure in which the peasant labored for the upper class who provided them with land to live on and protection in times of warfare.


Medieval Europe: Question 13 of 21
In Europe, the Crusades resulted in
greater isolation of the region from the world
an increased demand for goods from the Middle East and Asia
the adoption of Islam as the official religion of many European nations
the strengthening of the feudal system
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: As the crusaders returned from the Middle East to Europe, they brought with them a sample of the exotic spices and goods available from that part of the world. This resulted in an increased demand for these luxury goods and fueled trade between Europe and the rest of the world.


Medieval Europe: Question 14 of 21
One important effect of the Crusades on Western Europe was that they
led to a decline in the importance of the church in Western Europe
furthered cultural diffusion throughout Western Europe
introduced the Industrial Revolution to Western Europe
ended the western European quest for an overseas empire
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: As the crusaders returned from the Middle East to Europe, they brought with them a sample of the exotic spices and goods available from that part of the world. This resulted in an increased demand for these luxury goods and fueled trade between Europe and the rest of the world. A direct result of this trade was cultural diffusion as contact between these areas became more frequent.


Medieval Europe: Question 15 of 21
In European feudal society, an individual’s social status was generally determined by
birth
education and training
individual abilities
marriage
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Feudal Europe had a rigid class structure in which one’s status as a peasant or member of royalty was determined by birthright.


Medieval Europe: Question 16 of 21
Which economic system existed in Europe during the early Middle Ages?
free market
socialism
manorialism
command
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Manor System organized labor during the Middle Ages in Europe and provided those who lived on the manor with their basic economic needs.


Medieval Europe: Question 17 of 21
One major result of the Crusades was the
permanent occupation of the Holy Land by the Europeans
long-term decrease in European trade
conversion of most Muslims to Christianity
spread of Middle Eastern culture and technology to Europe
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: As European Crusaders returned to Europe from the Middle East, they brought with them ideas and technologies. These included the Hindu-Arabic numbering system, the concept of zero, and sailing technologies such as the astrolabe and compass.


Medieval Europe: Question 18 of 21
The growth of feudalism in Europe during the Middle Ages was primarily caused by the
rivalry between the colonial empires
suppression of internationalism
decline of the Roman Catholic Church
collapse of a strong central government
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The collapse of the Roman Empire was finalized in 476 CE, when the city of Rome was sacked. For nearly 1,000 years afterward no single centralized government was able to maintain control of Europe. As a result, the region became dominated by feudalism in order to meet the basic need for protection which was necessary for survival.


Medieval Europe: Question 19 of 21
The Crusades have been called “history’s most successful failures.” Which statement best explains this expression?
The Crusades did not achieve their original goals, but they brought about many desirable changes in Europe.
Although the Crusaders captured the Holy Land, they were unable to bring about democratic reforms.
The Crusades helped bring about the fall of the Roman Empire
The Crusaders prevented the Turks from capturing Constantinople for many centuries
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The Crusades provided new opportunities for the serfs living on medieval manors in Europe to travel to the Middle East to fight the Muslims. As the Crusades ended, Europeans brought back spices and other items which caused trade between the two areas to increase.


Medieval Europe: Question 20 of 21
The Roman Catholic Church during the Middle Ages in Europe can best be described as a church that
favored separation from secular governments
avoided involvement in social and educational matters
was a strong force that divided many people
was a stabilizing influence during a period of weak central governments
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Catholic Church was at the center of life in Europe during the Middle Ages.


Medieval Europe: Question 21 of 21
A major goal of the Christian Church during the Crusades (1096–1291) was to
establish Christianity in western Europe
capture the Holy Land from Islamic rulers
unite warring Arab peoples
strengthen English dominance in the Arab world
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The Europeans wanted to capture this area to protect Christian missionaries and pilgrims. Others reasons may include the hope for wealth and glory.