World War One: Question 1 of 7
In 1917, Bolshevik leaders in Russia sought peace with Germany because the new Russian government
decided to join forces with Germany and the Central Powers
needed to concentrate its troops and resources on its war with Turkey
wanted to retain power and avoid German occupation
needed to control the Baltic Sea and wanted a warm water port
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: V.I. Lenin ended Russian involvement in World War in March of 1918 when he signed the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. This cost Russia a large amount of land, but allowed Lenin to focus on gaining control of his newly won country.


World War One: Question 2 of 7
In Eastern Europe after World War I, the greatest obstacle to national unity in many nation-states was the
great ethnic diversity found in the region
economic dependence of Eastern Europe on Japan
acceptance of democratic traditions by most Eastern Europeans
expansion of United States influence in the region
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Empire and the Ottoman empire left many regions in turmoil. Newly formed countries, such as Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia were multinational, which led to infighting and ethnic violence.


World War One: Question 3 of 7
Which statement best describes the relationship between World War I and the Russian Revolution?
World War I created conditions within Russia that helped trigger a revolution
World War I postponed the Russian Revolution by restoring confidence in the Czar
the Russian Revolution inspired the Russian people to win World War I
World War I gave the Czar’s army the needed experience to suppress the Russian Revolution
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Russia’s involvement in World War One led to a series of military defeats as the Russian army was ill-equipped to deal with modern battle conditions. Russia also experienced a severe food shortage due to the war, which in turn led to riots and the eventual abdication of Czar Nicholas II in March of 1917. These events set the conditions for the Russian Revolution.


World War One: Question 4 of 7
A major cause of World War I was
a decline in the policy of imperialism
the existence of opposing alliances
an increase in acts of aggression by England
the spread of communism throughout Europe
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The four main cause of World War One are the Alliance System, Imperialism, Nationalism, and Militarism.


World War One: Question 5 of 7
Why was the Balkan region referred to as the “Powder Keg of Europe” prior to World War I?
The aggression of the Ottoman Empire was disrupting the balance of power.
Yugoslavia was invading its neighboring countries.
Nationalistic and imperialistic rivalries were increasing.
The area was the leading supplier of military equipment to the rest of the world.
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Tensions were caused by the multinational conflict between the Slavic peoples of the Balkan region, who had Russian support, the weakening Ottoman Empire, and the Austro-Hungarian Empire. All tried to control this region and limit each other's expansionist ideas. These tensions would ultimately lead to the start of World War One.

More Information


World War One: Question 6 of 7
The major impact of the Treaty of Versailles on Germany was that the treaty led to
an era of peace and international good will in Germany
a stable Germany that was both democratic and strong
an increase in Germany’s desire to regain its power and prestige
a leadership position for Germany in the League of Nations
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Treaty of Versailles was a humiliating end of the war for Germany. The treaty contained unrealistic monetary reparations, large territorial losses, and most importantly, the "war guilt" clause. The war guilt clause blamed Germany entirely for the war. This in turn led Germany to seek a return to its former status among nations.



Russian Revolution: Question 1 of 22
Which is generally a characteristic of a communist economy?
investment is encouraged by the promise of large profits
the role of government in the economy is restricted by law
government agencies are involved in production planning
entrepreneurs sell shares in their companies to the government
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: A communist, or command economy, controls the means of production by having governmental agencies involved in production planning.


Russian Revolution: Question 2 of 22
“A group of planners makes all economic decisions. The group assigns natural, human, and capital resources to the production of those goods and services it wants. The group decides how to produce them and to whom to distribute them.”  This description best applies to the

manorial economy of feudal Europe
mercantile economy of 18th century Europe
command economy of the Soviet Union
market economy of the United States
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: In a command economy, such as that of the communist Soviet Union, the government controls all aspects of production.


Russian Revolution: Question 3 of 22
Which situation resulted from the Russo-Japanese War of 1905?
Japan lost its status as a world power
the Japanese Emperor encouraged reforms in Russia
dissident groups challenged the power of the Russian Czar
Russia gained control of China and Japan
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Russia’s loss to Japan in the Russo-Japanese War (1905) indicated that there was a weakness in the Russian government which led to a series of confrontations between Czar Nicholas II and Russian dissidents.


Russian Revolution: Question 4 of 22
Stalin’s Five-Year Plans and his decision to form collectives are examples of
strategies to modernize the economy of the Soviet Union through forced communism
a more friendly foreign policy toward China
methods of dealing with the United States during the Cold War
programs to westernize, educate, and enlighten the population
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: In a command economy, such as that of the communist Soviet Union, the government controls all aspects of production.


Russian Revolution: Question 5 of 22
A major cause of the Russian Revolution of 1917 was the
defeat of Germany in the Russian campaign
marriage of Czar Nicholas II to a German princess
existence of sharp economic differences between social classes
appeal of Marxism to the Russian nobility
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: A rigid class system existed in Russia which allowed landowning nobles, priests, and the Czar to live well, while the peasant class faced many hardships, including poor working conditions in urban areas, poverty, and constant food shortages.


Russian Revolution: Question 6 of 22
Which is an accurate statement about the Soviet economy under the leadership of Joseph Stalin?
a large selection of consumer goods became available
the Soviet Union increased its industrial output by developing heavy industry
private farmers were encouraged to sell their surplus produce in an open market
the government reduced its role in planning industrial production
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: A communist, or command economy, controls the means of production by having governmental agencies involved in production planning. Stalin used this system to control the Soviet economy and increase production in heavy industry.


Russian Revolution: Question 7 of 22
A major effect of Josef Stalin’s policy of Collectivization on Soviet agriculture was
a widespread food shortage throughout the nation
an increase in the export of agricultural products
a surplus of agricultural goods
the immediate creation of many small private farms
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: A communist, or command economy, controls the means of production by having governmental agencies involved in production planning. In the Soviet Union, this system led to widespread food shortages as production goals were seldom met.


Russian Revolution: Question 8 of 22
One action taken by both V.I. Lenin and Joseph Stalin was
attempting to bring democracy to Russia
jailing or murdering potential opponents
supporting the Russian Orthodox Church
providing economic aid to Japan after World War I and World War II
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Totalitarian governments often resort to violence and terror as a means to control their country.


Russian Revolution: Question 9 of 22
The Russian peasants supported the Bolsheviks in the 1917 Revolutions mainly because the Bolsheviks promised to
establish collective farms
maintain the agricultural price-support system
bring modern technology to Russian farms
redistribute the land owned by the nobility
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Russian peasants lived in poverty and faced constant food shortages due to the lack of land to cultivate. Most of the arable land belonged to the nobility. Redistribution of this land would alleviate many of the peasant's problems.


Russian Revolution: Question 10 of 22
Which statement best describes the political situation in the Soviet Union immediately after Lenin’s death in 1924?
the nation adopted a constitutional monarchy
Trotsky and his followers assumed full control of the Communist Party
popular elections were held to choose a new general secretary
a power struggle developed among Communist Party leaders
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: A power struggle between Joseph Stalin and Leon Trotsky erupted after the death of Lenin. Stalin managed to outmaneuver Trotsky, who was forced out of the Communist Party and into exile. An agent of Stalin later assassinated Trotsky.


Russian Revolution: Question 11 of 22
The term that best describes the position of Jews in Czarist Russia is
political elite
persecuted minority
landed gentry
military leaders
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Jews in Czarist Russia suffered under an anti-Semitic regime.




Russian Revolution: Question 13 of 22
The 1917 victory of the communists in Russia was a contradiction of Marxist theory because Russia was
already ruled by a socialist government
involved in World War I
mainly an agricultural society
not considered to be a military power
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Marx’s ideas on political revolutions mainly concerned the plight of the poor working class in industrial societies.


Russian Revolution: Question 14 of 22
Josef Stalin’s leadership of the Soviet Union can best be characterized as a period of
democratic reform and nationalism
humanism and democracy
religious freedom and tolerance
censorship and terror
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Stalin turned the Soviet Union into a totalitarian state. This form of government consist of a one party dictatorship that often rules through terror and violence, while attempting to control all aspects of the lives of the citizens.


Russian Revolution: Question 15 of 22
The political reorganization of Russia after the Communist Revolution of 1917 resulted in
the establishment of a two-party political system
increased political power for ethnic minorities
a limited monarchy with the czar as a figurehead
a federation of socialist republics
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: After the Revolution, Lenin and the Communists gained control over much of the old Russian Empire. They renamed this the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, with Russia, the largest republic, in control. The Soviet Union consisted of diverse peoples throughout both Europe and Asia.


Russian Revolution: Question 16 of 22
Under Josef Stalin, the Soviet Union emphasized centralized economic planning and Five-Year Plans primarily to
produce more consumer goods
expand exports
create a demand for high-quality imports
develop heavy industry
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Stalin attempted to build the Soviet Union into an industrialized nation quickly through the use of central planning and his Five Year Plans.


Russian Revolution: Question 17 of 22
Which characteristic was common to both Russia under the Czars and the Soviet Union under Josef Stalin?
a lack of concern about territorial expansion
support of artistic and literary freedom
encouragement of free enterprise
persecution of political dissenters
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Both the Czars and Stalin used terror and violence to control all aspects of the lives of their citizens. They did not allow free speech or expression, so often political dissenters were jailed of executed.


Russian Revolution: Question 18 of 22
Under Joseph Stalin, life in the Soviet Union was characterized by
an abundance of consumer goods
political instability and numerous civil wars
support for small family-run farms
the use of censorship and the secret police
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Stalin used terror and violence in an attempt to control all aspects of the lives of the citizens. A main tool of this policy was a secret police, which often jailed or executed political dissenters.


Russian Revolution: Question 19 of 22
Which slogan expressed the ideals of the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917?
Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity
Bread, Land, and Peace
Land and Liberty
Nationalism, Democracy, and the People’s Livelihood
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The early goals of the Bolshevik Party were to remove Russia from World War One, redistribute land to the peasants, and ensure that everyone had enough to eat.


Russian Revolution: Question 20 of 22
Russian peasants supported the Bolsheviks in 1917 primarily because the Bolsheviks pledged to
establish and maintain collective farms
redistribute land and make peace
keep crop yields low
limit the income of the nobility
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The early goals of the Bolshevik Party were to remove Russia from World War One, redistribute land to the peasants, and ensure that everyone had enough to eat.


Russian Revolution: Question 21 of 22
Which statement best describes a relationship between World War I and the Bolshevik Revolution?
World War I created conditions in Russia that helped trigger a revolution.
World War I postponed the revolution in Russia by restoring confidence in the Czar.
Opposing Russian forces cooperated to fight the foreign invaders.
World War I gave the Czar’s army the needed experience to suppress the revolution.
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Russia performed poorly in World War One. They were ill-equipped to deal with a modern war, which led to high casualties and a series of humiliating defeats. This coupled with shortages of food, housing, and heating fuel created the conditions that allowed Lenin to gain the support of the peasants by promising an end to these problems.


Between World Wars: Question 1 of 13
In the 1920’s and 1930’s, the rise of totalitarian governments in Germany, Italy, and Spain was largely the result of
the success of the Communists in establishing a command economy in the Soviet Union
severe economic and social problems that arose in Europe after World War I
the active support of the United States
movements demanding the return of the old monarchies
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The Great Depression caused many people to lose faith in democracy and turn toward more radical ideas, such as communism and fascism. People were willing to give up individual rights of freedom for the promise of stability offered by these types of totalitarian regimes.


Between World Wars: Question 2 of 13
The harsh conditions imposed by the Treaty of Versailles after World War I helped lay the foundation for the
rise of fascism Germany
uprisings during the French Revolution
division of Korea along the 38th parallel
Bolshevik Revolution in Russia
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Under the Treaty of Versailles, Germany lost large areas of land, was forced to pay large reparations, and accept complete responsibility for the start of World War One. The German people felt humiliated by this treaty, which led them to readily accept the Fascist, who promised a return to Germany's former position of world power.


Between World Wars: Question 3 of 13
Between the Meiji Restoration and World War II, Japan tried to solve the problem of its scarcity of natural resources by
exporting agricultural products in exchange for new technology
establishing a policy of imperialism
building nuclear power plants
cooperating with the Soviet Union to gain needed resources
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Japan became imperialistic during this time period, seeking colonies as a source of raw materials and new markets for their products.

More Information


Between World Wars: Question 4 of 13
Which idea was included in the provisions of the Treaty of Versailles to show the intent of the Allies to punish the Central Powers for their role in World War II?
all nations shall maintain open covenants of peace
freedom of the seas will be maintained
Germany will accept full responsibility for causing the war
territorial settlements shall be made along clearly recognizable lines of nationality
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Under the Treaty of Versailles, Germany lost large areas of land, was forced to pay large reparations, and accept complete responsibility for the start of World War One. The German people felt humiliated by this treaty, which led them to readily accept the Fascist, who promised a return to Germany's former position of world power.


Between World Wars: Question 5 of 13
Fascism in Europe during the 1920’s and 1930’s is best described as a
demonstration of laissez-faire capitalism that promoted free enterprise
form of totalitarianism that glorified the state above the individual
type of economic system that stressed a classless society
set of humanist ideas that emphasized the dignity and worth of the individual
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Fascist government is rule by a one party dictatorship, which is both nationalistic and imperialistic. Fascism glorifies the state over the individual and often uses terror and violence to maintain control of its population.


Between World Wars: Question 6 of 13
Censorship, mass arrests, and a secret police force are most characteristic of
parliamentary democracies
republics
totalitarian regimes
constitutional monarchies
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Totalitarian governments use terror and violence in an attempt to control all aspects of the lives of the citizens. Tools of this type of regime are usually censorship and a secret police force.


Between World Wars: Question 7 of 13
After World War I, Japan attempted to solve some of its economic problems by
establishing extensive trade with the Soviet Union
expanding its influence in Asia
practicing the principles of Marxism
refusing to rely on Western technology
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Japan became imperialistic during this time period, seeking colonies as a source of raw materials and new markets for their products.

More Information


Between World Wars: Question 8 of 13
Which policy shows that appeasement does not always prevent war?
British policy toward Germany in Munich during the 1930’s
French policy in Indochina in the 1950’s
United States policy toward Cuba in the early 1960’s
Iraqi policy toward Iran in the 1980’s
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Under the policy of appeasement, Britain and other European nations allowed Germany to annex the Sudentenland and Czechoslovakia in hopes of preventing further conflict. But, this only allowed Germany to gain strength and eventually challenge the appeasing nations.


Between World Wars: Question 9 of 13
In the 1930’s, the Japanese government followed a policy of imperialism primarily to
acquire new sources of raw materials
spread Zen Buddhism throughout Asia
sell more consumer goods to European nations
spread the ideas of bushido
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Japan became imperialistic during this time period, seeking colonies as a source of raw materials and new markets for their products.

More Information


Between World Wars: Question 10 of 13
What was one reason the Nazi programs and policies of the early 1930’s appealed to many people in Germany?
the people were frustrated with their current economic and political situation
Germany had been denied membership in the United Nations
a coup d’etat had forced communism on the German people
the German people feared that the French of the British would soon gain control of the Polish corridor
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Under the Treaty of Versailles, Germany lost large areas of land, was forced to pay large reparations, and accept complete responsibility for the start of World War One. The German people felt humiliated by this treaty, which led them to readily accept the Fascist, who promised a return to Germany's former position of world power.


Between World Wars: Question 11 of 13
The imperialist policies followed by Japan after World War I were based on a desire to
convert people to Shinto
acquire markets for its oil industry
compete with Chinese trade policies
obtain natural resources for manufacturing
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Japan became imperialistic during this time period, seeking colonies as a source of raw materials and new markets for their products.

More Information


Between World Wars: Question 12 of 13
During the mid-1930’s, which characteristic was common to Fascist Italy, Nazi Germany, and Communist Russia?
government ownership of the means of production and distribution
one-party system that denied basic human rights
encouragement of individual freedom of expression in the arts
emphasis on consumer goods rather than on weapons
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Totalitarian governments use terror and violence in an attempt to control all aspects of the lives of the citizens. Tools of this type of regime are usually censorship and a secret police force.


Between World Wars: Question 13 of 13
One reason the Fascist governments of Benito Mussolini and Adolf Hitler came to power in Italy and Germany was that these nations
were threatened by the United States
supported civil liberties for all
failed to join the League of Nations
faced economic and political difficulties
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Both nations faced severe economic hardships due to the Great Depression. This made people lose faith in democracy and begin to support more radical forms of government that promised and end to these problems.





World War Two: Question 1 of 7
Which was a characteristic of Germany under Adolf Hitler and the Soviet Union under Josef Stalin?
an official foreign policy of isolationism
governmental control of the media
public ownership of business and industry
the absence of a written constitution
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Both countries had a totalitarian system of government. This is where the government attempts to control all aspects of the lives of their citizens.


World War Two: Question 2 of 7
World War II is often considered to be a turning point in history because
the League of nations demonstrated that an international organization could maintain world peace
the war brought an end to dictatorships as a form of government
European domination of the world began to weaken as nationalism in colonies increased
religious and ethnic differences were no longer a source of conflict between nations
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: After World War II, many European colonies sought independence as nationalist feelings swept across these nations.

More Information



World War Two: Question 4 of 7
Which reform took place in Japan after World War II?
Japan’s industrial capability was greatly reduced
the Emperor’s position was abolished
Japan became a representative democracy
labor unions were declared illegal
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: After World War II, Japan became democratic by reorganizing their government into a Parliamentary Democracy.

More Information


World War Two: Question 5 of 7
A major factor in the economic recoveries of Japan and West Germany after World War II was their
desire to avoid an invasion from China
acceptance into the United Nations
ability to produce nuclear weapons
need to replace destroyed factories
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Both countries recovered due to financial support from the United States, which helped them build new industries.

More Information


World War Two: Question 6 of 7
Which factor most enabled Japan to rebuild and modernize rapidly after World War II?
vast mineral reserves
large amounts of fertile land
a strong military
a well-trained workforce
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Japan’s well-trained workforce was able to quickly rebuild their industries with the financial support of the United States.


World War Two: Question 7 of 7
Which is one major reason the Holocaust is considered a unique event in modern European history?
Jews of Europe have seldom been victims of persecution.
Civilians rarely were killed during air raids on Great Britain.
Adolf Hitler concealed his anti-Jewish feelings until after he came to power.
The genocide was planned in great detail and required the cooperation of many people.
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Holocaust was the planned genocide of the European Jewish population by Adolph Hitler and his Nazi regime.
