Global Interdependence: Question 1 of 16
In France, a person drinks coffee imported from Brazil, works at a computer made in Japan, and uses gasoline from Saudi Arabia in a German automobile. This situation illustrates the concept of
empathy
scarcity
interdependence
world citizenship
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Interdependence refers to the idea that nations of the world are mutually dependent on each other for the goods that they produce. A nation’s goods are exported all over the world, and different items are imported from other nations.


Global Interdependence: Question 2 of 16
Japan sells cars to the United States, the United States exports high technology to Saudi Arabia, and Saudi Arabia exports oil to Japan. Which is a valid conclusion that can be drawn from this statement?
Saudi Arabia controls most of the world's natural resources
The United States is the world's leading exporter
most nations of the world specialize in one export
the nations of the world are economically interdependent
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Interdependence refers to the idea that nations of the world are mutually dependent on each other for the goods that they produce. A nation’s goods are exported all over the world, and different items are imported from other nations.


Global Interdependence: Question 3 of 16
Global problems of uneven economic development, environmental pollution, and hunger reflect the need for
a return to policies of economic nationalism
increased military spending by all nations
a reduction in foreign aid provided by industrialized nations
increased international cooperation
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Interdependence refers to the idea that nations of the world are mutually dependent on each other for economic development, and are mutually responsible for the problems of environmental pollution and world hunger. The nations of the world must work cooperatively to solve these problems.


Global Interdependence: Question 4 of 16
The Middle East is a global importance today because it
has become a model of economic and political equality
allows major European powers to retain their spheres of influence
provides much of the petroleum used by industrial nations
remains a primary source of uranium
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Much of the industrialized world is dependent on the oil producing nations in the Middle East. This fact makes the political stability of this region of worldwide importance.


Global Interdependence: Question 5 of 16
A major purpose of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the Organization of American States (OAS), and the European Union (EU) is to
encourage political and economic cooperation between member nations
end colonialism in member nations
control overpopulation in member nations
provide military assistance to member nations
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The OAU, OAS, and EU were set up to encourage political and economic cooperation between member states.


Global Interdependence: Question 6 of 16
In the past decade, Japanese automobile manufacturers have sought to improve Japanese-American trade relations by
drastically lowering the price of Japanese automobiles for American consumers
allowing an unlimited number of American automobiles to be sold in Japan
importing most spare parts from Mexico
building an increasing number of Japanese automobiles in the United States
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The United States has a trade deficit with Japan. To offset this imbalance, Japan has agreed to create American jobs by manufacturing some of their automobiles in the United States.


Global Interdependence: Question 7 of 16
In recent years, a major success of the European Union (EU) has been the
creation of a single military force
rejection of national sovereignty
adoption of a single language
elimination of trade barriers
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The European Union has recently eliminated tariffs between al member nations. This stimulates trade in a free market environment.


Global Interdependence: Question 8 of 16
The major reason the Mexican Government strongly supported the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) was that this agreement would
raise tariffs on United States products entering Mexico
reduce Mexico’s economic dependence on Europe
promote investment and economic growth in Mexico
stimulate trade between Asia and Latin America
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: NAFTA eliminated tariffs between the United States, Mexico, and Canada. This has led to increased interest in investing in Mexican business and industry.


Global Interdependence: Question 9 of 16
Within the past decade, the decision of the United States Government to grant China “most favored nation” status was important to China because this decision
allowed China to join the Southeast Treaty Organization (SEATO)
increased China’s ability to trade with the United States
helped protect China from a possible Japanese invasion
eliminated Russian influence in East Asia
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Most Favored Nation status would allow China more access to markets in the United States. The intended results would be a strengthening of China's economy.


Global Interdependence: Question 10 of 16
Modern Japan must trade to maintain its industry and living standard because Japan has
a limited amount of investment capital
little access to the sea
a lack of communication systems
few mineral resources
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Japan lacks many natural resources needed to maintain its industry and living standard. Therefore, they must develop extensive trade with other nations to offset this deficiency.


Global Interdependence: Question 11 of 16
Peacekeeping missions are operating in more than a dozen of the world’s many trouble spots. The authority to intervene and use force, if necessary, is found in several articles in the Charter. Which organization is referred to in these statements?
United Nations
Organization of American States (OAS)
European Union (European Community)
World Court
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: One of the many roles of the United Nations is peacekeeping around the world.


Global Interdependence: Question 12 of 16
Since the creation of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), member nations have joined together to
determine the supply of oil on the world market
establish a policy of independence in trade
maintain a low price of oil per barrel
isolate themselves from the rest of the world
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Together, the nations of OPEC control a vast amount of the world’s oil supply. Because of this, OPEC is able to set market price for oil around the world.


Global Interdependence: Question 13 of 16
A main goal of the European Union (European Economic Community) in the 1990’s has been to strengthen European
isolationism
socialism
interdependence
colonization
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The European Union has sought to bring its member nations closer together economically by issuing a standard currency and eliminating trade barriers.


Global Interdependence: Question 14 of 16
In recent years, companies from industrialized nations have been building production facilities in Latin American nations. This economic change is mostly due to the region’s
favorable climate
supply of inexpensive labor
capital resources
communist governments
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: High population and low industrial development has given Latin America an abundant supply of cheap labor. This attracts companies from the industrialized world that wish to cut cost in manufacturing.


Global Interdependence: Question 15 of 16
Since the end of World War II, the nations of Western Europe have improved their economic position by
increasing communication and cooperation in the region
colonizing African and Asian nations
isolating themselves from the rest of the world
rejecting membership in the United Nations
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The nations of Western Europe have increased their communication and cooperation through the creation of a series of economic communities. The current community is called the European Union, which also includes nations from Eastern Europe since the collapse of communism.


Global Interdependence: Question 16 of 16
The principal aim of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the European Union is to
keep communism out of the Western Hemisphere
reduce environmental pollution
increase economic cooperation between the member nations
eliminate global terrorism
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: NAFTA and the European Union were set up to encourage economic cooperation between member states through free trade.





Modern Issues: Economic Trends: Question 4 of 7
In many Latin American nations, reliance on the production of a single cash crop has led to
economic dependence on other nations
rapid repayment of foreign loans
a high per capita Gross National Product
development of a strong industrial economy
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: The production of a single crop does not allow for the diversity that Latin American nations need in order to be economically dependent of other nations, particularly when there are poor harvests or widespread crop failures.


Modern Issues: Economic Trends: Question 5 of 7
Which fact about China has been the cause of the other three?
the economy of China has trouble providing for all the needs of the people
the Chinese government has set limits on the number of children families may have
Chinese cities have a severe shortage of housing
China’s population exceeds one billion
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: China’s large population has caused problems in their economy, created a shortage in housing, and forced the government to institute laws limiting the number of children families may have.


Modern Issues: Economic Trends: Question 6 of 7
Since the collapse of the Soviet Union in the early 1990’s, Russia has attempted to build an economic system based on
a return to feudalism
the ideas of Marx and Lenin
the writings of Mao Zedong
free-market a system
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Russia has switched from a communist, or command economy, to a capitalist, or free market economy. This was a result of the dismal failures produced by the former communist system.


Modern Issues: Economic Trends: Question 7 of 7
Which conclusion is valid concerning the food shortages some nations of Africa and Asia during the 1970’s and 1980’s?
misuse of the land has destroyed many rich food-producing regions
too few people in Africa and Asia are involved in food production
acid rain has been the major cause of crop failures
European nations stopped shipping food to these regions
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: African agriculture is mainly devoted to cash crops for trade and commerce. This has led to vast food shortages and famine in some African nations.



Modern Issues: Science & Technology: Question 1 of 4
In Mexico and India, the Green Revolution has been successful because it has
promoted democratic reform
increased agricultural productivity
introduced western culture and values
established economic equality among the people
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The Green Revolution applies modern technology to solve the problem of food production. Some of the methods are modern irrigation systems, the use of heavy machinery, and more potent fertilizers and pesticides. The Green Revolution has been more successful in areas with larger farms, that can afford these innovations.


Modern Issues: Science & Technology: Question 2 of 4
The major goal of the Green Revolution has been to
decrease the use of modern farm machinery
decrease population growth
increase agricultural output
increase the number of traditional farms
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Green Revolution applies modern technology to solve the problem of food production. Some of the methods are modern irrigation systems, the use of heavy machinery, and more potent fertilizers and pesticides. The Green Revolution has been more successful in areas with larger farms, that can afford these innovations.


Modern Issues: Science & Technology: Question 3 of 4
The term “Green Revolution” is used to describe the
tensions between developing and developed nations
heavy reliance on manual labor in agriculture
protests against environmental destruction caused by industry
development of new types of grains and new methods of growing them
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: The Green Revolution applies modern technology to solve the problem of food production. Some of the methods are modern irrigation systems, the use of heavy machinery, and more potent fertilizers and pesticides. The Green Revolution has been more successful in areas with larger farms, that can afford these innovations.


Modern Issues: Science & Technology: Question 4 of 4
The main goal of the Green Revolution was to
prevent further destruction of the world’s rain forests
solve chronic food shortages through the use of technology
expand the economies of developing nations with foreign investment
insure that foreign aid was received by people with the greatest need
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The Green Revolution applies modern technology to solve the problem of food production. Some of the methods are modern irrigation systems, the use of heavy machinery, and more potent fertilizers and pesticides. The Green Revolution has been more successful in areas with larger farms, that can afford these innovations.


Modern Issues: Population: Question 1 of 1
In the 1980?s, the governments of both Brazil and Malaysia supported the cutting of timber in their rain forests as a means of
achieving economic prosperity
increasing the national debt
controlling rebellions of indigenous peoples
preventing exploitation by imperialist nations
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Deforestation is used to clear land for farming or habitation. This is done in response to growing populations in such areas as Brazil and Malaysia.


Modern Issues: The Environment: Question 1 of 8
A study of the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in the Soviet Union and of severe air pollution in Mexico would lead to the conclusion that
technology can cause problems throughout the world
international trade is more profitable than domestic commerce
modern science cannot solve most political problems
agricultural nations have caused major world environmental problems
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Modern technology can be very damaging to the environment. Many nations are working together to stop the destruction of the environment by such industry.


Modern Issues: The Environment: Question 2 of 8
A major environmental problem affecting Latin America, Sub-Saharan Africa, and Southeast Asia has been
air pollution
Deforestation
disposal of nuclear waste
acid rain
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Deforestation is the widespread destruction of forests, primarily the tropical rain forests of Latin America, Southeast Asia, and Africa. This is of worldwide concern because of its potential effects on the environment, such as global warming due to an increase in carbon dioxide.


Modern Issues: The Environment: Question 3 of 8
Many scientist believe that the ?greenhouse effect? is the result of
overgrazing on land in developing nations
using large amounts of gasoline, oil, and coal in developed nations
testing nuclear weapons in violation of the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty
using natural fertilizers to increase crop production
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: The use of these products releases carbon dioxide, which is believed to destroy the ozone layer, which protects the earth from harmful solar radiation.


Modern Issues: The Environment: Question 4 of 8
A major factor contributing to the destruction of the Amazon rain forests is the
movement of people from rural to urban areas
attempt of native peoples to end illegal drug traffic
need for more farmland
spread of Christianity
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Deforestation is used to clear land for farming or habitation. This is done in response to growing populations in such regions as Latin America and Africa.


Modern Issues: The Environment: Question 5 of 8
The amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has increased in recent years. Environmentalists suggest this change is a direct result of the
improper storage of solid and nuclear waste
overcutting of forests and the increased use of fossil fuels
dumping of inorganic material into lakes and rivers
use of herbicides and toxic substances such as asbestos and DDT
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Deforestation and the use of fossil fuels are both suspected of increasing the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. This is of worldwide concern because of its potential effects on the environment, such as global warming due to an weakening of the ozone layer which protects the earth from harmful solar radiation.


Modern Issues: The Environment: Question 6 of 8
In developing countries, the use of wood, charcoal, and dung as major sources of energy has created an increase in
economic dependence on industrialized nations
sales an profits for international oil corporations
deforestation and other environmental problems
nuclear waste products
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Deforestation and the use of fossil fuels are both suspected of increasing the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. This is of worldwide concern because of its potential effects on the environment, such as global warming due to an weakening of the ozone layer which protects the earth from harmful solar radiation.


Modern Issues: The Environment: Question 7 of 8
A negative impact of the use of modern technology is that
levels of air and water pollution often increase
economic opportunities are frequently limited
contacts with other cultures decrease
international trade is limited
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Modern technology can be very damaging to the environment. Many nations are working together to stop the destruction of the environment by such industry.


Modern Issues: The Environment: Question 8 of 8
In Latin America, the deforestation of the Amazon rain forest has led to
the maintenance of a traditional way of life
the discovery of new medicines
overpopulation in rural regions
environmental dangers
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Deforestation is the widespread destruction of forests, primarily the tropical rain forests of Latin America, Southeast Asia, and Africa. This is of worldwide concern because of its potential effects on the environment, such as global warming due to an increase in carbon dioxide.

Modern Issues: Human & Women's Rights: Question 3 of 7
The Tiananmen Square massacre in China was a reaction to
Deng Xiaoping?s plan to revive the Cultural Revolution
student demands for greater individual rights and freedom of expression
China?s decision to seek Western investors
Great Britain?s decision to return Hong Kong to China
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: China?s government has consistently shown little regard for the human rights of its citizens. The Tiananmen Square massacre is prime example of the lengths the Chinese government will go to remain in power.


Modern Issues: Human & Women's Rights: Question 4 of 7
Which statement best describes a result of the student demonstrations in Beijing?s Tiananmen Square in 1989?
prodemocracy protestors were successful in achieving their goals
a state-controlled education program was begun
the government further restricted freedom of expression in China
collectivization programs were started in China
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: China?s government has consistently shown little regard for the human rights of its citizens. The Tiananmen Square massacre is prime example of the lengths the Chinese government will go to remain in power.


Modern Issues: Human & Women's Rights: Question 5 of 7
A common problem facing most Latin American and Eastern European nations today is that these nations
have little arable land and few mineral resources with which to improve their economies
have chosen not to belong to international organizations
are struggling with a transition to democracy after experiencing years of dictatorial rule
are experiencing major problems with the flood of illegal immigrants entering their nations
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Many countries in both Latin America and Eastern Europe are struggling to form democratic governments after decades of rule by totalitarian dictators. This has caused both economic and social problems in these countries as they strive to achieve a stable government.


Modern Issues: Human & Women's Rights: Question 6 of 7
Today, human rights violations most often occur in nations in which
freedom of the press exists
government is limited by law
leaders have absolute control
government has a multiparty system
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: Governments that have little or no check on their power often abuse the rights of their people in an effort to remain in control. Example of these nations are China and Iraq, both of which are noted for their dismal human rights record.


Modern Issues: Human & Women's Rights: Question 7 of 7
An analysis of the Chinese student demonstrations in Tiananmen Square in 1989 would show that
communist governments continue to have little control over the actions of their citizens
totalitarian governments frequently survive by the use of force
peaceful demonstrations often succeed in achieving democratic reforms
negative global reaction sometimes leads to economic decline
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Governments that have little or no check on their power often abuse the rights of their people in an effort to remain in control. Example of these nations are China and Iraq, both of which are noted for their dismal human rights record.