

World War One: Question 7 of 7
“Archduke Franz Ferdinand Assassinated!”
“Germany Declares War on Russia and France!”
“Peace Treaty Signed at Versailles!”

Which event is referred to in these headlines?
Franco-Prussian War
Crimean War
World War I
Cold War
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: These are all events that occured during World War One.


Russian Revolution: Question 12 of 22
“…the organizations of the revolutionaries must consist first, foremost, and mainly of people who make revolutionary activity their profession…such an organization must of necessity be not too extensive and as secret as possible…”
-V.I. Lenin, 1917


This quotation refers to Lenin’s plan to
defeat Germany in World War I
establish democracy in Russia
maintain communist power in Western Europe
overthrow the Russian government
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: V.I. Lenin was the architect of the Russian Revolution. Together with Leon Trotsky, he adapted Marxist ideas to fit the Russian situation and overthrew the weak and corrupt Czarist regime.




Russian Revolution: Question 22 of 22
The Kirghiz with whom we stopped was very well off. . . . After some tea our host asked me, “Where is the Ak Padsha now, the White Tsar Nikolai?”
“He and all his family, the Tsaritsa, their daughters and son, have been killed by the Bolsheviks,” I answered.
The old man gave a deep sigh . . .“And you . . . Are you one of the men of the regime of Nikolai?”
“Yes, of course,” I replied. “I detest and despise the Bolsheviks.”
The old man . . . began to blink and a tear rolled down his cheek, while the rest of the family sobbed . . .
I was deeply touched by the scene. On this remote frontier of the Empire, . . . a family of nomad herdsmen was weeping for the tragic death of their White Pasha, as the Tsar was known.

In which period of time did this scene take place? 
during the Napoleonic Wars
after Mao Zedong came to power
after the Russian Revolution
during World War II
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: The Bolsheviks executed Czar Nicholas II and his family during the civil war that erupted shortly after the revolution.




World War Two: Question 3 of 7
“From as early as I can remember, the Emperor was an important presence even in our remote home. He was a descendant of the gods from thousands of years before, never to be looked at or listened to by mere mortals, a presence to be revered and protected and obeyed…Finally…, my family and neighbors gathered around the radio and listened in stunned silence to the voice that had never before been heard, saying he was only human after all. Everyone was crying. I was sad and confused…”

Which event caused the Emperor to announce that he was “only human after all”?
his overthrow by communist forces
defeat of the Japanese in World War II
signing of the Versailles Treaty
conclusion of the Russo-Japanese War
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: One of the provisions of Japan’s surrender was that the Emperor was no longer to be considered divine, thus allowing a Parliamentary government to successfully rule Japan.





