
Cold War: Question 9 of 36
“From Stetin in the Baltic to Trieste in the Adriatic, an Iron Curtain has descended across the continent. Behind that line lie all the capitals of the ancient states of Central and Eastern Europe. Warsaw, Berlin, Prague, Vienna, Budapest, Belgrade, Bucharest and Sofia, all these famous cities and the populations around them lie in what I might call the Soviet Sphere, and all are subject, in one form or another, not only to Soviet influence, but to very high, and in some cases increasing measure of control from Moscow."
-Winston Churchill


What is the main idea of this quotation?
The Soviet Union has expanded its influence throughout Eastern Europe
The Soviet Union has helped the nations of Eastern Europe improve their standard of living
The democratic nations of Western Europe have stopped the expansion of Soviet influence in the world
The Soviet Union will support communist revolutions in Southeast Asia
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: After World War II, Stalin forced pro-communists governments in Czechoslovakia, Poland, and other Eastern European nations. These nations became known as Soviet satellite states. The Soviet's retained control through both economic and militaristic means.



Cold War: Question 16 of 36
“Warsaw Pact Tanks Invade Budapest"
"Wall Divides Berlin”
“Liberal Czechoslovak Government Replaced”

These historical newspaper headlines were related to
Mikhail Gorbachev’s introduction of the policy of Glasnost
Adolf Hitler’s efforts to promote national socialism
the Soviet Union’s acceptance of capitalism
attempts by the Soviet Union to strengthen communist control
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: After World War II, Stalin forced pro-communists governments in Czechoslovakia, Poland, and other Eastern European nations. These nations became known as Soviet satellite states. The Soviet’s retained control through both economic and militaristic means.



Cold War: Question 19 of 36
“We believe in nonaggression and noninterference by one country in the affairs of another and the growth of tolerance between them and the capacity for peaceful coexistence. We, therefore, endeavor to maintain friendly relations with all countries, even though we may disagree with them in their policies.”
-Jawaharlal Nehru, Prime Minister of India


This statement describes the foreign policy known as
imperialism
mercantilism
isolationism
nonalignment
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Nonaligned nations, such as India, wished to remain free of cold war entanglements while pursuing economic and social progress.


Cold War: Question 23 of 36
-Berlin Blockade (1948-1949)
-Premier Khrushchev’s visit to the United States (1959)
-Cuban missile crisis (1962)
-Nuclear Test Ban Treaty (1963)
-Joint Apollo-Soyuz space mission (1975)
-Russian invasion of Afghanistan (1979)

What does this list of events suggest about the Cold War Era?
throughout the period, the United States and the Soviet Union were reluctant to solve conflicts
the level of tension between the United States and the Soviet Union varied
economics played a key role in causing conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union
the United Nations was instrumental in reducing tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: During the Cold War, tensions between the Soviet Union and the United States often varied between near cooperation and near war.



Cold War: Question 35 of 36
· Blockade of Berlin
· Operation of the Berlin Airlift
· Organization of the Warsaw Pact
· Construction of the Berlin Wall

These events of the Cold War are examples of
efforts to prevent military conflict between the superpowers
situations that increased tensions between communist and democratic nations in Europe
attempts to weaken the Soviet Union’s control of its Eastern European allies
policies of peaceful coexistence and détente
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: These are all examples of situations that caused conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union during the Cold War.




Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 5 of 50
“If we are to remain free, if we are to enjoy the full benefits of Africa’s enormous wealth, we must unite to plan for the full exploitation of our human and material resources in the interest of all our people”
-Kwame Nkrumah (1950’s)


This quotation best expresses the major goal of
colonialism
Pan-Africanism
imperialism
urbanization
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Pan-Africanism was a nationalistic movement in Africa that stressed the unity of all Africans regardless of borders.

More Information




Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 16 of 50
The Canal was dug by Egypt’s sons and 120,000 of them died while working. The Suez Canal Company in Paris is an imposter company. It usurped our concessions… Therefore, I have signed today the following law which has been approved by the Cabinet: Article 1 of the decree reads, “The Universal Company of the Suez Maritime Canal—Egyptian Joint-Stock Company – is hereby nationalized. All its assets, rights and obligations are hereby transferred to the Nation.”
-Source: World History, Prentice Hall



This passage describes the decision of the Egyptian government to
end trade with Mediterranean countries
stop building canals
take control of the Suez Canal
sell the Suez Canal to France
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: In 1956, Gamal Abdel Nasser nationalized the Suez Canal, which effectively took control away from the British.


Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 29 of 50
--Rebellion in the Congo during the 1960’s
--Civil war in Nigeria from 1967 to 1970
--Fighting in the Sudan in the 1980’s
--Massacres in Rwanda in the 1990’s

Which factor was the main reason for these conflicts?
poor food distribution systems
communist interference
demands for land reform
ethnic rivalries
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Ethnic and tribal loyalties have been the cause of political instability and violence in many African nations since independence.

More Information



Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 36 of 50
“Today you won’t find a single African head of state who stands on a podium and declares: ‘I am a Marxist.’ Instead all the talk is about…currency, private enterprise, and getting hold of capital.”
--Tei Mante of Ghana


Which statement about the economies of African nations is best supported by the information in this quotation?
African nations remain heavily dependent on China and North Korea for trade, capital, and food
African nations are more concerned with obtaining investment capital than with discussing political philosophies
African nations realize they must cooperate
the failure of capitalism in Africa has helped the communists grow in strength
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Since the collapse of communism in the Soviet Union, and the subsequent withdrawal of support, many African nations have turned toward capitalism to modernize and industrialize.



Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 39 of 50
“Indian National Congress Refuses To Support British War Effort”
“Indians Answer Call for the Production of Homespun Cloth”
“Indians Call for Boycott of Imported British Cloth”

These three headlines all refer to
attempts by the native people to gain Indian independence
political reorganization in the British colonia empire
programs to increase India’s standard of living
the benefits of economic interdependence between Britain and India
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: All three examples are efforts by India to achieve independence from Great Britain.

More Information



Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 44 of 50
“Rhodesia Becomes Zimbabwe”
“Gold Coast Becomes Ghana”

These headlines suggest that African governments sometimes rename their nations to
avoid military overthrow
reflect traditional cultures
reinforce colonial influences
increase foreign investments
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: After independence, many Africa nations were renamed in an effort to break with European colonialism and reflect African heritage and tradition.




Colonial Independence / Collapse of Imperialism: Question 50 of 50
“East Africa is changing. . . . When my children go . . . with us to visit my parents . . . they feel out of place. They see bare floor, the different food, and they cannot understand it as we can. . . . They will never scorn [reject] their origins, but it is just no longer their way of life. They have something better to look forward to.”

Which facet of African life is described in this quotation?
political problems of developing nations
ethnic conflicts
conflict between tradition and modernization
prejudice against elderly family members
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: As Africa modernizes, clashes occur between traditional tribal practices and more modern attitudes and values.




Conflict in the Middle East: Question 20 of 20
The statements below refer to changes in Afghanistan in the 1990’s.

• The Taliban controls the government.
• Women must clothe themselves from head to toe.
• Men are required to grow beards.
• Girls are not allowed to attend school.

These changes in Afghanistan have resulted from a movement toward
Marxist ideology
liberation theology
constitutional reforms
Islamic fundamentalism
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Islamic fundamentalism is a movement to reject westernization and return to a more tradition society based upon the Koran.


Conflict in the Middle East: Question 17 of 20
“The time has come for you to go
Live where you like, but not among us...
Get out of our soil, our sea, our wheat, our salt, our wounds.
[Get] out of the memory of our memories
—Mahmoud Darwish, Palestinian poet


Which concept is supported by the ideas expressed in this passage?
socialism
absolutism
humanitarianism
nationalism
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Since the creation of Israel in 1948, the Palestinians have been denied a homeland of their own. This has caused violence between the Israelis and the numerous terrorist organizations that support the Palestinian cause.


Apartheid in South Africa: Question 4 of 9
“The Very First Thing You Should Know About South African Stocks and Bonds”

“Two Leading Financial Institutions Show You Around South Africa’s Banking World”

“Amalgamated Banks of South Africa: Everything You’d Expect From An International Banking Partner”

The titles of these pamphlets, available in 1994 from an American business and financial publication, reflect
a continuation of the international trade sanctions imposed on South Africa in 1985
a renewed interest in investing in South Africa’s economy
the hazards associated with overseas economic investment
a belief that the banks and the bond market in South Africa are inferior to those in Europe
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Since the end of Apartheid, many nations have taken a renewed interest in conducting business with the people and government of South Africa.




Apartheid in South Africa: Question 1 of 9
Which conclusion is best supported by this cartoon?
 


Imprisonment of political dissidents rarely ends opposition to the government.
The United Nations supports punishment for acts of civil disobedience.
Better media coverage would prevent the imprisonment of protesters.
Mistreatment of political prisoners often results in their acceptance of government policies.
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: Nelson Mandela remained a force in the struggle to end Apartheid throughout his years in prison. When he was freed, he became the driving force in the end of this policy.



Collapse of Communism: Question 11 of 17
“Cuba today is a land of impossible contradictions, a utopia with beggars, a so-called puppet still dancing after the puppet master’s death.”

In this 1993 newspaper quotation, which nation is referred to as the “puppet master”?
Haiti
Soviet Union
Spain
United States
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Cuba was one of the many satellite states of the former Soviet Union. Despite the collapse of communism in the former Soviet Union, Cuba remains committed to this economic/political system.


Collapse of Communism: Question 12 of 17
“Germany Recognizes the Independence of Slovenia”
“United States Establishes Diplomatic Relations with Croatia”
“Latvia Joins the United Nations”

These headlines illustrate the
collapse of the governments of these nations
strength of the Russia Empire
beginning of a united Europe
increase in international support for self-determination
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: As the Soviet Union began to collapse, many new nations were formed in Eastern Europe. This development was greeted with enthusiasm around the world.


Collapse of Communism: Question 8 of 17
“Polish Communist Party Fails in Election Bid”
“Romanians Depose Communist Dictator”

Which is a valid conclusion based on these headlines from the late 1980’s?
military buildups are continuing in Eastern Europe
planned economies in Eastern Europe have become increasingly successful
demands for democracy ended many totalitarian governments in Eastern Europe
the Soviet Union stopped independence efforts in Eastern Europe
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: During the 1980s, nationalistic feelings began to dominate the political landscape in Eastern Europe, eventually leading to independence for many of these nations.


Collapse of Communism: Question 9 of 17
“The Soviet Union Splits into 15 Republics”
“Yugoslavia Experiences Internal Conflict”
“Germany Reunifies”

Which conclusion do these three headlines suggest?
communism remains an important force in Europe
many Western European nations are experiencing civil war
international sanctions strengthen a nation’s ability to govern
the forces of nationalism can either divide of unite a nation
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: During the 1980s, nationalistic feelings began to dominate the political landscape in Eastern Europe, eventually leading to independence for many of these nations.


Collapse of Communism: Question 4 of 17
Article 50—in accordance with the interests of the people and in order to strengthen and develop the socialist system, citizens of the USSR are guaranteed freedom of speech of the press, and of assembly, meetings, street processions and demonstrations.

Exercise of these political freedoms is ensured by putting public buildings, streets and squares at the disposal of the working people and their organizations, by broad dissemination of information, and by the opportunity to use the press, television, and radio.
-Excerpt from the constitution of the Soviet Union


Which conclusion can be reached by a comparison of events in the Soviet Union and this passage from the constitution of the Soviet Union?
constitutional rights guarantee a free society
a national constitution always guarantees human rights
a constitutional guarantee must be very specific in order to be effective
a constitutional guarantee may be limited by government actions
Correct Answer Number: 4

Explanation: Despite a written constitution which guaranteed certain rights, the practice of the communist government was often oppressive.




Collapse of Communism: Question 1 of 17
What is the main idea of this 1991 cartoon?
 


The unification of Germany has been hurt by poor leadership in the country.
The economic differences between East and West Germany have limited the growth of the total German economy.
East Germany's strong economy has strengthened a united Germany.
Both East Germany and West Germany have contributed equally to the new economy of a reunified Germany.
Correct Answer Number: 2

Explanation: Prior to German reunification, West Germany enjoyed a thriving economy, while East German suffered under a communist economy. Since reunification, the united Germany has struggled to maintain a good economy due to rebuilding in the eastern half of the country.

Post-Cold War “Hot Spots”: Question 1 of 8
Which conclusion about the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) can be drawn from this 1994 cartoon?
 


NATO did not react quickly enough to the crisis in Bosnia.
Bosnia and NATO continue to disagree about the causes of the civil war.
NATO's actions have allowed communism to take advantage of the destruction of Bosnia.
The United States will probably withdraw from NATO as a result of the Bosnian crisis.
Correct Answer Number: 1

Explanation: NATO is a military alliance of the United States and various nations of Europe. During the 1990’s, it failed to act quickly enough to stop the warfare and destruction in Bosnia and other Balkan nations.


Post-Cold War “Hot Spots”: Question 2 of 8
“Russia Takes Soviet Union Seat”
“Taiwan (R.O.C.) Ousted in Favor of People’s Republic”
“Baltic Republics Join As Full Members”

These headlines best illustrate that the United Nations
is usually dominated by industrialized countries
generally relies on the use of force to enforce its decisions
responds to changing political conditions
permits developing nations to block the proposals of Westerns nations
Correct Answer Number: 3

Explanation: As world conditions have changed, the United Nations has changed to meet current, relevant needs.

